91 News are collected
May promises a Brexit deal that 'works for Scotland' as she takes her PR blitz to Glasgow**
2018-11-27 22:37:06
https://www.heraldscotland.com/news/17259940.theresa-may-promises-a-brexit-deal-that-works-for-scotland-as-she-takes-her-pr-blitz-to-glasgow/

  THERESA May will today promise a Brexit deal that “works for Scotland” and which will “strengthen the Union” as she ventures north of the border to sell her deeply controversial plan for life outside the European Union.
 
  The sentiments are in sharp contrast to the SNP Government’s analysis, highlighted in a new report yesterday, that warned how Scots face being more than £1,600 a year worse off outside the EU than inside the EU.
 
  Today, the UK Government will publish its own Brexit analysis, covering a “range of different scenarios”.
 
  As the Prime Minister prepares to travel this afternoon to a factory near Glasgow to talk to bosses and staff about the merits of the UK-EU Withdrawal Agreement, Nicola Sturgeon accused her of "governing by threat" and seeking to impose on Scotland an "unacceptable" Brexit deal, which would make the nation £9 billion poorer by 2030.
 
  "No government of Scotland with the interests of this and future generations at heart could possibly accept it," declared the First Minister, who insisted the cost of Scotland not being independent had been laid bare over the last two years. Yet, there was still no sign of when Ms Sturgeon would demand another vote on Scottish independence.
**
Brexit legal battle: The arguments explained**
2018-11-27 18:03:53
https://www.heraldscotland.com/news/17259537.brexit-legal-battle-the-arguments-explained/

  The case at at the Court of Justice of the European Union (CJEU) was a rare full court hearing involving no less than 28 judges, one from each of the EU member states.
 
  There were five parties in the case - the original petitioners (the cross-party group of politicians), additional parties (LibDem MP Tom Brake and Labour MP Chris Leslie), the UK Government, the Council of European Union and the European Commission.
 
  Here we take a look at what each of their arguments involved -
 
The petitioners
 
  Lawyers for the politicians who raised the case claim that Article 50 can be revoked without the need for permission from other EU countries.
**
Brexit puts Scotland at 'competitive disadvantage to Northern Ireland'**
2018-11-27 15:22:49
https://www.heraldscotland.com/news/17258964.brexit-puts-scotland-at-competitive-disadvantage-to-northern-ireland-finds-scottish-government-analysis/

  The Scottish Government says its latest analysis shows the UK Government's proposed Brexit deal will make Scotland poorer and puts Scotland at a 'competitive disadvantage' to Northern Ireland. 
 
  The Scottish Government said the deal leaves future trading arrangements uncertain for both goods and services, and would put Scotland at a potential competitive disadvantage to Northern Ireland.
 
  Ministers argue that Scotland's working age population would decline by 3% without EU migration with the ending of the free movement of people.
 
  The administration said its assessment suggests that the proposal could cost the equivalent of £1,600 for each person in Scotland by 2030, compared to continued EU membership.
 
  It argues that the cost could end up being higher than that because it is not certain that a free trade deal will be agreed.
**
Brexit legal battle: Court hears politicians need to know if there is a way out**
2018-11-27 15:13:23
https://www.heraldscotland.com/news/17258999.brexit-legal-battle-court-hears-politicians-need-to-know-if-there-is-a-way-out/

  A landmark case at Europe's highest court has heard that politicians need to know whether or not the UK can unilaterally halt Brexit.
 
  Aidan O'Neill QC, representing a cross-party group of politicians who are seeking a ruling on whether Article 50 can be revoked, said clarity was needed to allow his clients "to carry out their duties as democratically elected representatives, accountable to the people".
 
  READ MORE: Scotland's Brexit legal bid explained as European court to hear Article 50 challenge
 
  The politicians who raised the case argued that unilateral revocation is possible, however both the Council of European Union and the European Commission claimed it could only happen with the unanimous agreement of all other EU countries.
 
  Lawyers for the UK Government, who have made several attempts to stop the case from proceeding to the Court of Justice of the European Union (CJEU), said it took no position on the question but argued that the entire case is inadmissible as it deals with a hypothetical situation.
**
Scotland's Brexit legal bid explained as European court to hear Article 50 challenge**
2018-11-27 10:32:52
https://www.heraldscotland.com/news/17258142.scotlands-brexit-legal-bid-explained-as-european-court-to-hear-article-50-challenge/

  Can the UK still choose to revoke Article 50 and stop Brexit?
 
  This is the question the UK Government does not want answered and has been spending vast amounts of public money trying to block.
 
  But a small group of cross-party politicians believe the answer is vital to the future of the UK and, while other MPs have been squabbling and plotting over the Brexit process, they have been quietly arguing their case in Scotland’s court system.
 
  And the Scottish legal action reaches Europe’s highest court today.
 
  Here is that legal bid explained.
**
David Lidington snubs Nicola Sturgeon insisting Brexit TV debate is 'only for biggest parties'**
2018-11-27 09:51:05
https://www.heraldscotland.com/news/17258061.david-lidington-snubs-nicola-sturgeon-insisting-brexit-tv-debate-is-only-for-biggest-parties/

  Cabinet Office minister David Lidington has insisted that Nicola Sturgeon will not be part of a TV debate with Theresa May. 
 
  Mr Lidington, the Prime Minister's de facto deputy said that it is up to Scottish broadcasters whether or not First Minister Nicola Sturgeon is included in any TV debate in Scotland.  
 
  Asked whether First Minister Nicola Sturgeon and other political leaders would be involved, Mr Lidington said: "This is a debate between the leaders of the two biggest parties at Westminster which is where the decision on whether to approve the deal or not will take place.
 
  "The Prime Minister obviously will speak up in favour of the deal she has negotiated, I'm assuming that Mr Corbyn, if he wants to do this, will argue for the rejection of the deal.
 
  READ MORE: Nicola Sturgeon to issue Brexit analysis that could determine Indyref2 date
**
Matt Hancock: voting for PM's Brexit Plan 'best way' to ensure unhindered supply of medicines**
2018-11-27 15:32:01
https://www.heraldscotland.com/news/17258946.health-secretary-matt-hancock-says-voting-for-pms-brexit-plan-best-way-to-ensure-supply-of-medicines/

  MPS should vote for Theresa May’s Brexit Plan to ensure medical stockpiles do not run out, Matt Hancock, the UK Health Secretary, has said.
 
  The Cabinet Minister told the Commons during Health Questions: "Voting for the deal is the best way to ensure unhindered supply of medicines."
 
  He has reportedly told the Prime Minister and her Cabinet that he "could not guarantee people would not die" if the UK ended up with a no-deal Brexit as it would disrupt access to medical supplies.
 
  In the chamber, Labour’s Adrian Bailey asked Mr Hancock to outline his plans for making sure patients could get medicine if stockpiles ran out.
 
  "In the event of a no-deal, what steps would be taken to secure the supply of medicines beyond the six-week stockpile that has been recommended by the Government to drug companies?" asked the MP for West Bromwich West.
**
Nicola Sturgeon to issue Brexit analysis that could determine Indyref2 date**
2018-11-27 07:54:03
https://www.heraldscotland.com/news/17257226.nicola-sturgeon-to-issue-brexit-analysis-that-could-determine-indyref2-date/

Nicola Sturgeon will today publish the SNP Government’s analysis of Theresa May’s Brexit deal, raising questions about her own plan for a second independence referendum.
 
  Ms Sturgeon and her Constitutional Relations Secretary Michael Russell will set out how the Prime Minister’s deal would impact on economy, trade, the NHS, population and access to EU funding streams.
 
  READ MORE: 'Independence is now the only option for Scotland' says Ian Blackford 
 
  Ms Sturgeon promised a “precise timescale” on a second referendum once she had clarity on the EU withdrawal deal and the political declaration on future trade relations.
 
  The First Minister has stated categorically that Mrs May’s deal would be bad for Scotland, suggesting there is now enough clarity to make a call on a referendum date.
**
Hundreds of jobs to be created in £30m Ayrshire port redevelopment**
2018-11-27 19:32:38
https://www.heraldscotland.com/business_hq/17257130.hundreds-of-jobs-to-be-created-in-30m-ayrshire-port-redevelopment/

  Hundreds of jobs are to be created with the multi-million redevelopment of a Scots port and marine yard into a decommissioning and renewables hub.
 
  Scottish Enterprise has approved a funding offer of £10 million towards Peel Ports’ £30m proposed project to redevelop its Hunterston Port and Resource Centre site in North Ayrshire
 
  The backing will help Peel Ports to unlock private sector investment for the site, which has been in operation since the 1970s.
 
Read more: Highland port to undergo £30m revamp to welcome world's biggest cruise ships
 
  The project will go before the Peel Ports board for final approval in January and the dry dock facility is expected to "move quickly thereafter".
**
Analysis: May's offer of TV debate with Corbyn underlines her weakness on Brexit Plan**
2018-11-27 14:03:05
https://www.heraldscotland.com/news/17258841.analysis-theresa-mays-offer-of-tv-debate-with-jeremy-corbyn-underlines-her-weakness-on-brexit-plan/

  As Theresa May embarks on her Brexit media splurge – akin to what Tony Blair once dubbed his “masochism strategy” – she has underscored her position of weakness by finally agreeing to a live TV debate with Jeremy Corbyn on her deal.
 
  Historically, during election campaigns, prime ministers have been loath to go on the telly to debate their leading opponents; Gordon Brown and David Cameron were the exceptions. This is because they have a record in government to defend, appearing before viewers gives their opponents a level billing, and it is generally thought they have more to lose than to gain.
 
  Of course, during the 2017 General Election campaign Mrs May – 20 points ahead in the polls - infamously announced that she would not be doing live head-to-heads as she was concentrating on meeting ordinary voters.
 
  In reality, she met precious few ordinary voters and her lack of presence in the TV studios backfired spectacularly, particularly when on one occasion all the party leaders were cross-examined and the Tory leader’s absence was painfully conspicuous.
 
  During this occasion, the Greens’ Caroline Lucas came up with one of the best quotes of the whole campaign when, asked what was the first rule of leadership, replied: “Showing up!”
**
Scottish Brexit case set to reach highest European court**
2018-11-27 13:07:29
https://www.heraldscotland.com/news/17257057.scottish-brexit-case-reaches-highest-european-court-today/

  A Scottish legal action that could halt Brexit reaches Europe’s highest court today, potentially throwing a spanner in Theresa’s May frantic push for a deal on her terms.
 
  Launched by a cross-party group of Scots politicians led by Green MSP Andy Wightman, the action has been resisted through the courts by the UK government for months.
 
  However today finally sees oral arguments at the European Court of Justice in Luxembourg.
 

 
  The action is about whether MPs have the power to order the UK government to revoke the Article 50 withdrawal process that underpins Brexit.
**
Anti-abortion student group banned at Aberdeen University**
2018-11-27 13:09:56
https://www.heraldscotland.com/news/17257089.anti-abortion-student-group-banned-at-aberdeen-university/

  An anti-abortion group has been banned from becoming an official club at one of Scotland’s oldest universities.
 
  The student association at Aberdeen University has prevented a pro-life society from affiliating - which means the group cannot access funding to help run events.
 
  Aberdeen University Students’ Association (Ausa) currently has a pro-choice policy which backs “free, safe and legal access to abortion”.
 
  Under the policy, the association has agreed not to offer any “funding, facilitation or platform” to groups that offer different advice on the issue.
 
  However, the Aberdeen Life Ethics Society has challenged the ban and accused the student association of censorship.
**
Donald Trump: Brexit deal may stop trade with the US**
2018-11-27 08:45:01
https://www.heraldscotland.com/news/17257911.donald-trump-brexit-deal-may-stop-trade-with-the-us/

Donald Trump has warned that the UK's Brexit deal may impact trade with the US. 
 
  The US president told reporters: "Sounds like a great deal for the EU.
 
  "I think we have to take a look at, seriously, whether or not the UK is allowed to trade.
 
  READ MORE: Scottish Brexit case reaches highest European court today
 
  "Because, you know, right now, if you look at the deal, they may not be able to trade with us. And that wouldn't be a good thing.
**
Theresa May to visit Scotland this week, insisting her Brexit deal will 'strengthen the Union"**
2018-11-27 08:48:30
https://www.heraldscotland.com/news/17257350.theresa-may-to-visit-scotland-this-week-insisting-her-brexit-deal-will-strengthen-the-union/

  THERESA May will visit Scotland this week to sell her Brexit deal, insisting it will "strengthen the Union" and "delivers for every corner of the UK" with more powers flowing to Holyrood.
 
  The start of her grand Brexit tour in Wales and Northern Ireland today comes as she confirmed the MPs will have their meaningful vote on Tuesday December 11.
 
  While the Prime Minister has expressed full confidence she can get her deal through the Commons, in the chamber yesterday she suffered another torrid reception with Tory MP after Tory MP standing up to urge her to abandon a Brexit deal they regard as a “surrender” to Brussels.
 
  And No 10 issued a non-committal response when it faced a barrage of reporters’ questions about a possible head-to-head TV debate with Jeremy Corbyn on the Brexit deal, which Nicola Sturgeon has already made clear she would want to be involved in.
 
  As she prepared to kick off her big sell, Mrs May said: “Having been told by the EU that we would need to split the UK in two, we are leaving as one United Kingdom. My deal delivers for every corner of the UK and I will work hard to strengthen the bonds that unite us as we look ahead to our future outside of the EU.”
**
Edinburgh Zoo's giant panda, Yang Guang,  undergoes surgery to remove tumours**
2018-11-27 10:12:49
https://www.heraldscotland.com/news/17258129.edinburgh-zoos-giant-panda-yang-guang-undergoes-surgery-to-remove-tumours/

Edinburgh Zoo's giant panda, Yang Guang, has undergone surgery to remove tumours. 
 
  The panda, who arrived at Edinburgh Zoo in 2011 with female Tian Tian as part of a breeding programme,  is currently recovering from surgery to remove both testicles due to the presence of tumours.
 
  Darren McGarry, Head of Living Collections at Edinburgh Zoo, said, “We are pleased Yang Guang is recovering well.
 
  “Testicular tumours have previously been reported in giant pandas. The tumours we removed developed recently, so they have not been a factor in Yang Guang and Tian Tian not having had a cub.
 
  “We will discuss next steps, including future breeding possibilities, with our partners in China over coming weeks.”
**
Margaret Taylor: Brexiteers’ fishing lies make the case for a People’s Vote**
2018-11-27 05:17:03
https://www.heraldscotland.com/news/17257666.margaret-taylor-brexiteers-fishing-lies-make-the-case-for-a-peoples-vote/

  ONE of the enduring images of the Brexit referendum campaign is that of self-appointed Leaver-in-chief Nigel Farage leading a flotilla of boats down the Thames into the waiting arms of Remain activist and one-time Boomtown Rat Bob Geldof. Though the scene descended into farce as the two sides clashed over the impending vote, the fishermen who had accompanied the then Ukip leader were there to highlight a serious point: the need, as they saw it, for the UK to “take back control of our waters”.
 
  As expected, the fishing industry voted overwhelmingly in support of the UK’s withdrawal from Europe, enthused by the prospect of finally being able to extricate itself from the hated Common Fisheries Policy (CFP). Having grown up in the north-east of Scotland and witnessed the decline of once-thriving fishing towns like Fraserburgh and Peterhead, it was easy to understand why. Designed to safeguard the sustainability of the seas, the CFP necessarily restricted the size of the catch local vessels could bring in, with the number of fishermen working on Scottish boats halving between the 1970s and the late 2000s as a result. The north-east, which accounts for around a quarter of the total Scottish workforce, bore the brunt of that decline, with Fraserburgh seeing numbers fall by 54 per cent while in Peterhead they dropped by 42 per cent.
 
  The damage this has wreaked on the local economy has been immense, with high streets that in the 1980s were filled with bustling shops and chintzy cafes all but dead while the windows of countless private residences, once resplendent with Royal Doulton figurines, have been boarded up. With heroin addiction continuing to claim the lives of too many youngsters who at one time would have been destined for a life at sea, wouldn’t you too have voted to break away from the remote political institution whose desk-bound bureaucrats had caused all those ills?
 
  The problem is that holding the EU –and the CFP in particular – responsible for all the problems that have befallen such communities ignores the influence of way too many other factors. Such as the fact that the licences required to operate within the rules of the CFP have been allocated by the UK and Scottish governments in such a way that large super-trawlers have been able to flourish at the expense of the smaller-scale fishermen who were once the mainstay of the fishing industry. Indeed, while there are more than 2,000 vessels licensed to fish in Scotland, in 2016 two-thirds of the catch by weight was landed by just 19 super-trawlers.
 
  Or the fact that the heroin epidemic that has rendered so many in the north-east incapable of following their forbears out to sea sprang up due to an abundance, rather than lack of, wealth. Though fishermen had long been known for their hard-drinking ways when back on shore, the nineties generation began dabbling in narcotics, spending their hard-earned but plentiful cash on party drugs before making the inevitable move on to heroin and addiction.
**
Glasgow student to help Nasa go back to the Moon**
2018-11-27 00:01:00
https://www.heraldscotland.com/news/17257371.glasgow-student-to-help-nasa-go-back-to-the-moon/

  It was in 1969 that Neil Armstrong first stepped on the Moon and took his one “small step” that won the space race for the United States and stunned disbelieving audiences around the world.
 
  Now almost half a century on, Nasa has said that it will not give up in its mission to send humans to other planets and by the end of the 2020s it will have astronauts on the Moon again, ready to launch craft to get humans onto Mars.
 
  But to reach that next frontier, 34 million miles away, the world’s foremost space agency has enlisted the help of a philosophy student from the University of Glasgow to make it happen.
 
  A new PhD  programme will see a student develop the philosophical understanding of the risk necessary to send men and women back to the Moon, and this time to stay there.
 
  The programme, which is currently in the last stages of receiving backing from the UK government’s research funding bodies, will partner with Nasa to analyse the way that its safety reports are constructed and the philosophy of causation that underpins them.
**
Just five children in care accounted for more than 350 police misper probes**
2018-11-27 10:13:01
https://www.heraldscotland.com/news/17257084.just-five-children-in-care-accounted-for-more-than-350-police-misper-probes/

  JUST five children in care accounted for more than 350 police missing persons investigations last year.
 
  The youngsters disappeared - on average - more than once a week in 2017-2018, raising huge concerns for their welfare.
 
  Chief Constable Iain Livingstone said the five individuals topped his force’s list of missing persons. In his monthly report to the Scottish Police Authority, he confirmed that children overall accounted for two out of three of Scotland’s 23,000 “misper” probes.
 
  He added that around 7,500 of these cases involved looked-after children.
 
  Mr Livingstone’s remarks come nearly a decade after two teenage girls in care jumped off the Erskine Bridge over the Clyde.
**
Police warn of ‘massive” rise in mental health calls**
2018-11-27 22:00:00
https://www.heraldscotland.com/news/17259702.police-warn-of-massive-rise-in-mental-health-calls/

  POLICE Scotland is facing a “massive” rise in emergency mental health calls just as it warns Brexit and other challenges will make it hard for it to balance its books.
 
  Force leaders say the number of complex “concern for person” cases officers attend has risen by nearly a quarter over the last two years.
 
  This is often as people suffering health crises reach out to the public service of last resort - policing - at weekends and nights when other safety nets are not available.
 
  Deputy Chief Constable Will Kerr on Tuesday told the Scottish Police Authority (SPA) the force had logged an additional 14,000 to 15,000 additional calls. He said: “Every one of those additional calls can take five, six, eight or ten hours to deal with. It is taking police officers away from their communities.
 
  “It is a massive issue for us and something we need to get to grips with.”
**
Spy-accused academic tells of relief to be home**
2018-11-27 12:22:03
https://www.heraldscotland.com/news/17258549.spy-accused-academic-matthew-hedges-tells-of-relief-to-be-home/

  A British academic jailed in the United Arab Emirates over spying accusations has told of his relief to be home after being pardoned by the nation's president.
 
  Matthew Hedges said it was "very surreal" to be back in the UK as he made his first public statement since being arrested at Dubai airport more than six months ago.
 
  The 31-year-old, a PhD student at Durham University, thanked his wife and everyone who helped to secure his release as he landed back in London.
 
  He was freed on Monday after a high-profile battle with the Gulf state ally over claims he is an MI6 spy - an accusation denied by his family and colleagues.
 
  After landing at Heathrow Airport on Tuesday morning, Mr Hedges, originally from Exeter, praised his "brave and strong" wife Daniela Tejada, saying "seeing her and my family after this ordeal is the best thing that could have happened".
**
Fresh drive to help homeless Scots ahead of Christmas**
2018-11-27 12:12:10
https://www.heraldscotland.com/news/17258514.fresh-drive-to-help-homeless-scots-ahead-of-christmas/

  HOMELESS Scots will be given long-term and settled accommodation as soon as possible as part of a fresh drive to help people off the streets.
 
  It comes after Nicola Sturgeon pledged to end rough sleeping and homelessness, with a £50 million fund launched last year.
 
  Ministers have now rolled out a new action plan to combat the issue as many homeless people prepare to weather the harsh winter months.
 
  Communities Secretary Aileen Campbell insisted everyone “needs a safe, warm place to call home”.
 
  She said: “It's more than a place to live – it's where we feel secure, have roots and a sense of belonging.
**
Salmon farmers 'must address serious concerns before expanding'**
2018-11-27 05:00:00
https://www.heraldscotland.com/news/17257161.salmon-farmers-must-address-serious-concerns-before-expanding/

  SCOTLAND’S booming salmon farming industry should not be allowed to expand any further without overhauling its environmental standards, an inquiry has found.
 
  An in-depth probe by MSPs recommended handing regulators robust new powers to limit or close down production on farms where fishes regularly succumb to disease and infection.
 
  It comes after campaigners warned salmon farming – which is worth more than £1 billion to Scotland’s economy – was turning the country’s seas into an “open sewer”.
 
  But despite calling for tougher regulations, Holyrood’s Rural Economy and Connectivity Committee insisted there was “insufficient evidence” for a moratorium on new salmon farm development.
 
  Only two MSPs, the Scottish Green’s John Finnie and Labour’s Colin Smyth, supported a temporary ban.
**
"Quit drugs and avoid a criminal record", say Scottish Tories**
2018-11-27 00:02:03
https://www.heraldscotland.com/news/17257380.quit-drugs-and-avoid-a-criminal-record-say-scottish-tories/

  DRUG users should get one chance to take up treatment and avoid prosecution before feeling “the full force of the law” according to the Scottish Conservatives.
 
  Proposals in a strategy unveiled by the party today include the drawing up of personalised life plans for all those who come forward for help.
 
  The Scottish Tories are calling for a review of all drug-related deaths and of the methadone programme, and say they would seek to increase the proportion of drug users in treatment from 40 per cent to 60 per cent.
 
  The plans come just a day before the Scottish Government is due to publish its own drugs strategy.
 
  But the Conservatives said SNP ministers had failed to deliver on pledges to tackle the drugs ‘crisis’.
**
Third of Scotland's doctors worried about workplace 'bullying and harassment'**
2018-11-27 18:45:10
https://www.heraldscotland.com/news/17259689.third-of-scotlands-doctors-worried-about-workplace-bullying-and-harassment/

  MORE than one in three doctors in Scotland claim bullying and harassment is a problem in their workplace, according to a survey of nearly 1000 medics.
 
  It comes after the launch of a QC-led investigation into claims by senior doctors that NHS Highland’s leadership has presided over a “culture of fear and intimidation” for the past decade which they say has silenced criticism about issues affecting patient care.
 
Read more: NHS Highland medics blast 'culture of fear and intimidation' 
 
  Now the results of a survey of 999 doctors by BMA Scotland, published today, suggests that the problem may be more widespread.
 
  It reports that 38% of respondents believe bullying and harassment is an issue in their hospital department or GP practice, but a quarter of doctors also said they would not feel confident reporting such behaviour.
**
Mother dies and daughter rushed to hospital after hillwalking incident**
2018-11-27 15:47:05
https://www.heraldscotland.com/news/17258313.mother-dies-and-daughter-rushed-to-hospital-after-glen-coe-hillwalking-incident/

  A mother has died and her daughter is in hospital following a hillwalking incident.
 
  A mountain rescue operation was launched after a member of the public reported concerns for a woman who had been seen on a path leading from the Lairig Eilde car park towards Buachaille Etive Beag in the Glen Coe area at around 9.30am on Monday.
 
  Glencoe Mountain Rescue Team (MRT) went to the scene along with a Coastguard helicopter to help the woman.
 
  While they were there the body of another woman aged 52 was found a short distance away.
 
Read more: Three children rescued from sea cave in Dunbar
**
Neil Mackay: Time to make tough choices and bring the internet to heel**
2018-11-27 05:04:52
https://www.heraldscotland.com/news/17257618.neil-mackay-time-to-make-tough-choices-and-bring-the-internet-to-heel/

  IF the internet had an off switch, I’d flick it right now.
 
  It’s not that I’m a luddite who despises technology and wishes for an Amish-style golden age of Spinning Jennies – I just know a bad thing when I see it. And the internet is now well and truly bad. Of course, no technology is bad in and of itself, it can only assume a moral dimension thanks to the purpose humanity puts it to – but we humans have definitely pointed the web down a dark and nasty path.
 
  New research shows that 60 per cent of Britons believe at least one conspiracy theory. People who voted Brexit are more likely to believe a conspiracy theory, but Remainers are far from immune – 71 per cent of Leave voters believed at least one outlandish tinfoil-hatted scare story, compared to 49 per cent of pro-EU voters. Some 31 per cent of Leavers believed Muslim migration was part of a plot to create an Islamic majority in the UK – six per cent of Remainers believed the same nonsense.
 
  I don’t raise this issue to make a political point – I raise it to make a social point, for these conspiracy theories are bred online. The research was conducted over six years and in nine countries by academics at Cambridge University and pollsters at YouGov. One of the lead researchers, John Naughton, found that conspiracy theorists were early adopters of the internet as they realised it could help peddle their madness where the mainstream media – with its experts, facts, and statistics – would not. Professor Naughton calls the top tier of conspiracy theorists – the likes of David Icke with his lizards, and Alex Jones with his InfoWars – “conspiracy entrepreneurs”, as they make a hell of a lot of money out of propagating claims that a monkey in a tree would have trouble believing.
 
  The internet allows lies to prosper –whether it’s claims that Jews run the world, or the Democratic Party is a paedophile ring, or Muslims are taking over Europe – and these lies play into our politics, infect and inform it, distort it.
**
ScotRail accused of 'planning for failure' this winter**
2018-11-27 00:01:00
https://www.heraldscotland.com/news/17257102.scotrail-accused-of-planning-for-failure-this-winter/

  SCOTRAIL has been accused of “planning for failure” after announcing plans to confirm winter weather delays and cancellations a day in advance.
 
  The train operator said it would tell passengers by 4pm on the preceding day when services will be scrapped or changed because of winter weather.
 
  Critics said it was throwing in the towel instead of fighting to keep services running on time
 
  The attack followed ScotRail promising to send “winter readiness” teams to key stations to meet customers and “help them prepare for travel this winter”.
 
  Roadshows are planned in the next fortnight in Glasgow, Stirling, Dundee and Edinburgh.
**
Scottish schools had to re-advertise 3000 teaching vacancies**
2018-11-27 11:37:42
https://www.heraldscotland.com/news/17258399.scottish-schools-had-to-re-advertise-3000-teaching-vacancies/

  Thousands of teaching jobs in Scotland were re-advertised as schools struggled to fill vacant posts, new figures indicate.
 
  Statistics obtained by the Scottish Conservatives through a freedom of information request suggest a number of positions at primary and secondary school level across the country were not filled.
 
  It means in the last three years nearly 3,000 vacancies have been advertised again.
 
  Over that time, 340 of those posts were in Aberdeen, with a further 369 in neighbouring Aberdeenshire.
 
  There were 197 jobs re-advertised in Edinburgh and 120 in Glasgow.
**
Driver escapes uninjured after crashing into front garden near primary school**
2018-11-27 09:15:29
https://www.heraldscotland.com/news/17257984.driver-escapes-uninjured-after-crashing-into-front-garden-near-primary-school/

  A driver escaped injury after a car crashed into a front garden near a primary school.
 
  Police said it appears the driver lost control and hit a parked car before ending up in the garden of a tenement on Tantallon Road in the Shawlands area of Glasgow.
 
  Two ambulances and a police van went to the scene following the incident which happened at around 7.40pm on Monday.
 

 
  Images from the scene showed one car in the garden while another was positioned diagonally across the pavement.
**
Ministers urged to provide school holiday 'benefit' and clubs to tackle hunger**
2018-11-27 00:00:00
https://www.heraldscotland.com/news/17257136.ministers-urged-to-provide-school-holiday-benefit-and-clubs-to-tackle-hunger/

  FAMILIES on low incomes should receive a new "holiday benefit" to help pay for meals during the school break, while councils should set up clubs to help cut the cost of childcare, according to a new report.
 
  The measures are outlined in a new report from the Poverty and Inequality Commission, which was asked by the Scottish Government to examine ways to alleviate food insecurity during holiday periods.
 
  Ministers asked the Commission to look at ways of tackling so-called 'holiday hunger', which has seen some councils opening schools during the summer so children reliant on free school meals do not miss out, outside of term time.
 
Pupils' hungriness in holidays big human rights issue, says children's commissioner
 
  Its report says there is evidence that many children lose educational progress during the summer holidays and that children from low-income families are worst affected. It says this may be a primary factor in the attainment gap.
**
Plans afoot to breathe new life into Dallas Dhu distillery**
2018-11-27 00:06:55
https://www.heraldscotland.com/news/17257375.plans-afoot-to-breathe-new-life-into-dallas-dhu-distillery/

  Nearly 40 years ago, many of Scotland’s distilleries fell silent for what many thought to be the final time.
 
  It was 1983 and several major whisky producers were closed due to falling demand for whisky across the globe, which seemed to put the industry into terminal decline.
 
  Included in the closures was one of the country’s favourites – Dallas Dhu, in Forres.
 
  It had been producing whisky for nearly 100 years but was shut and has been mothballed since.
 
  But now proposals for a fresh use for the site will see new life breathed into one of the sleeping giants of whisky production and it could even start producing Scotch again.
**
Justice quango struggled in first year, watchdog finds**
2018-11-27 16:53:21
https://www.heraldscotland.com/news/17258728.justice-quango-struggled-in-first-year-watchdog-finds/

  A NEW justice quango failed to comply with the law that created it and struggled on multiple levels in its first year of operation, watchdogs have found.
 
  The Auditor General said Community Justice Scotland (CJS) lacked a full-time chair, was run by too small a board, and had “limited capacity” to handle its £1.2m budget in 2017/18.
 
  Caroline Gardner said “governance issues” at the organisation would be monitored in the future.
 
  CJS was established by a 2016 Holyrood Act to promote community justice as an alternative to prison, reduce reoffending and reintegrate people into the community.
 
  It is part of the Scottish Government efforts to reduce short jail terms and give more people community sentences.
**
Targets for the Scottish Government's flagship scheme not being met**
2018-11-27 08:21:17
https://www.heraldscotland.com/news/17257896.targets-for-the-scottish-governments-flagship-scheme-not-being-met/

  Targets for the Scottish Government's flagship scheme to prepare children and young people for the world of work are not being met, according to a report.
 
  Halfway into the seven-year Developing the Young Workforce Programme (DYW), it was revealed "too little or no" progress is being made in some key areas.
 
  The policy aims to make sure all post-school options, such as apprenticeships, employment or university, are equally valued and available to every young person.Holyrood's Education and Skills Committee found for many groups of young people, particularly those who have been in care or are disabled, progress has fallen behind Government targets and may not be achieved by 2021.
 
  READ MORE: Scottish Brexit case reaches highest European court today​
 
  Figures show the percentage of employers recruiting young people directly from education has not changed from 32% since 2014, despite a target of 35%.
**
Charity warns of "dangerous incoherencies" in Scottish youth justice system**
2018-11-27 22:00:00
https://www.heraldscotland.com/news/17259660.charity-warns-of-dangerous-incoherencies-in-scottish-youth-justice-system/

  A charity has called for an urgent review of the youth justice system as it published a report warning of major problems with the way Scotland deals with troubled young people.
 
  Action For Children Scotland and Scotland’s Children and Y oung People’s Commissioner appointed an expert panel to look at the legacy of Lord Kilbrandon, the Scottish judge whose 1964 report paved the way for the country’s unique system of youth justice.
 
  However the panel’s report, Kilbrandon Again, says there are major problems with the children’s hearing system and calls for a new system of justice for 16-21s. It warns of a lack of places in secure accommodation for young people, leading some to be placed in adult jails. And while MSPs are currently debating raising the age of criminal responsibility in Scotland from eight, the youngest in Europe, to 12, Kilbrandon Again claims it should be raised higher still, to 16.
 
  The independent panel included former race equality chief Kaliani Lyle, journalist and broadcaster Ruth Wishart and was chaired by author and former Bishop of Edinburgh Richard Holloway. The University of Edinburgh’s Professor Lesley McAra was an advisor to the panel.
 
  The report welcomes a drop in the number of young people ending up at children’s hearings, but warns that Scotland’s unique system of youth justice is failing many of those who are referred.
**
Uber fined £385,000 by UK watchdog**
2018-11-27 10:59:17
https://www.heraldscotland.com/news/17258269.uber-fined-385000-by-uk-watchdog/

  Uber has been fined £385,000 by a UK watchdog for failing to protect customers' personal information during a cyber attack.
 
  A series of "avoidable data security flaws" allowed the personal details of around 2.7 million UK customers to be accessed and downloaded by attackers, the Information Commissioner's Office (ICO) said.
 
  This included full names, email addresses and phone numbers, exposing people to an "increased risk of fraud".
 
  The records of almost 82,000 UK drivers - including details of journeys made and how much they were paid - were also taken during the incident in October and November 2016.
 
  ICO director of investigations Steve Eckersley said: "This was not only a serious failure of data security on Uber's part, but a complete disregard for the customers and drivers whose personal information was stolen.
**
Former shipyard venue for Scotland's show in Venice**
2018-11-27 10:33:29
https://www.heraldscotland.com/news/17258160.former-shipyard-venue-for-scotlands-show-in-venice/

  A VENUE in the former shipyard of Venice will play host to Scotland's show at the world's biggest visual arts festival.
 
  The show to be staged by artist Charlotte Prodger at the 58th International Art Exhibition, the Biennale, will be in the Arsenale Docks, part of the Cucchini shipyard in the canal city.
 
  The last Scotland + Venice show, by Rachel Maclean, was in a church away from the main centre of art exhibitions at the Biennale, but Ms Prodger's show will be located in an area between the Arsenale and Giardini - or gardens - locations at the heart of the festival.
 
  The venue overlooks the Canal di Sant’Anna and is close to two water bus stops.
 
  Scotland has had an independent art show, separate from the UK Pavilion, since the 2003 Biennale.
**
Domestic abuse incidents up for second year running**
2018-11-27 12:30:29
https://www.heraldscotland.com/news/17258588.domestic-abuse-incidents-up-for-second-year-running/

  INCIDENTS of domestic abuse increased for the second consecutive year in 2017/18, up an extra two cases per day, according to new figures from Scotland’s chief statistician.
 
  The report Domestic Abuse Recorded by the Police in Scotland showed there were 59,541 incidents last year, of which 26,273 (44%) involved at least one crime or offence.
 
  The total number was 1% up on the 58,810 incidents recorded in 2016/17, however that year included a higher proportion (47%) which were classed as a crime or offence.
 
  The total was the highest since 2014/15, as was the number per 10,000 of the population, which was 110 last year, and 109 and 108 in each of the preceding years.
 
  The most commonly recorded crime or offence was common assault (37% of cases), followed by breach of the peace (31%).
**
Police probe launched following reports of gunfire near East Lothian recycling centre**
2018-11-27 11:08:47
https://www.heraldscotland.com/news/17258319.police-probe-launched-following-reports-of-gunfire-near-east-lothian-recycling-centre/

  Police are carrying out an investigation following reports of gunfire at a recycling centre in East Lothian. 
 
  Officers were called to the scene on the A199 near Dolphingstone recycling centre in East Lothian just after 1:30pm on Monday November 26. 
 
  The road was closed while police carry out investigations with officers appealing for anyone with information to come forward. 
 
    *NON-TRUNK INFO*#A1 S/B exit slip at A199 remains CLOSED ⛔ due to a police incident at the #A199.#BeAware
 
  A Police Scotland spokeswoman said: "Specialist resources supported local officers in carrying out a search of the area and two vehicles have been recovered as part of this investigation.
**
Letters: Hope for the future must now lie in Scotland's internationalist approach**
2018-11-27 05:21:35
https://www.heraldscotland.com/news/17257677.letters-hope-for-the-future-must-now-lie-in-scotlands-internationalist-approach/

  JUST the other day we remembered the First World War with our well-kent mix of feelings, pride, sorrow and anger. That dreadful war resulted in the Treaty of Versailles, an equally dreadful deal from which Europe suffered grievously.
 
Theresa May has brought back from Flanders another dreadful deal (“May: There is no Plan B for Brexit and you will not get better deal”, The Herald, November 26). What is there in this dispiriting, comfortless deal to which we could raise a glass and say “well done”? Nothing. What is there in these tedious 600 pages of reductionist compromise that we can truly value? Where in this Mrs May’s deal (for it is her deal both in its anxious character and little substance) is there anything that makes anyone truly pleased or satisfied?
 
  At a time when we have pathetic petulant governance on the Potomac, Europe should now be a counterbalance of rational stability. Instead what did we see on the very day of this debilitating deal? The Russians seized this moment of weakness and acted in its typical brutish manner in the Balkans.
 
  Europe and the UK and all of our many millions have lost so much in this dreadful deal. We have lost power retreating behind our British-Tory nationalism; lost international credibility, lost European social cohesion and incredible economic value. Perhaps there is a way out via Scotland’s internationalism gaining its rightful (and historic role) in Europe?
 
  Thom Cross,
**
SPONSORED CONTENT: Get into the spirit with these unique Scottish distillers**
2018-11-27 09:16:09
https://www.heraldscotland.com/news/17256939.sponsored-content-get-into-the-spirit-with-these-unique-scottish-distillers/

  WITH the festive season fast approaching, there is plenty to celebrate. Investing in some of Scotland’s finest new spirits from dedicated distillers is ideal for a unique gift, a special occasion or for the party season. Here are some of the best examples of Scottish distilleries offering their own take on whisky, gin and rum…
 
Benromach Distillery
 
  Discover the magic of Benromach this Christmas and savour a dram of our beautifully balanced single malt scotch whisky, with its classic Speyside character and light touch of smoke.
 
  The perfect accompaniment to celebrations with friends and family, Benromach have a stunning range of single malts to suit every taste.
 

**
Sharp Highland marketing drive launched for Devil’s Elbow route**
2018-11-27 22:01:05
https://www.heraldscotland.com/news/17259881.sharp-highland-marketing-drive-launched-for-devils-elbow-route/

  FOR decades it really was Scotland’s most terrifying but captivating drive. Now it is again, virtually.
 
  The once notorious Devil’s Elbow – the one-in-six gradient Cairngorms switchback immortalised in countless postcards – was bypassed years ago.
 
  But the old winding slog of a road, still in place for energetic cyclists, is being brought back to life thanks to a new app pushing yet another Highland motoring route.
 
  And it has even got its own viewing point – and art installation – so visitors can marvel at the real-world dramatic scenery surrounding what still is Scotland’s highest highway.
 
  The new app is for a route called SnowRoads, which crosses the Cairngorms National Park from Blairgowrie in the south to Grantown in the north.
**
Climate For Change : Community hydro scheme nominated for energy award**
2018-11-27 16:57:25
https://www.heraldscotland.com/news/17259434.hydro-scheme-in-arrochar-shortlisted-for-community-energy-award/

  Arrochar Community Hydro Society (ACHS) are delighted to be nominated in The Scottish Green Energy Awards 2018 for the Arrochar Community Hydro Scheme. The award nomination is in the Best Community Project Award category.
 
  The Arrochar Community Hydro scheme was initially proposed by Luss Estates Company as a means to enable local Development Trusts to generate income to reinvest in their communities. The river and surrounding land, on which the scheme is built, is leased for a peppercorn rent of £100 per annum by Luss Estates Company to Arrochar Community Hydro.
 
  The Arrochar & Tarbet and Luss & Arden Development Trusts worked alongside Community Energy specialists Energy4All, Local Energy Scotland and Luss Estates Company to develop this project.
 

 
Luss Estates is a diversified rural business set on the banks of Loch Lomond
**
Scott Bain: Being dumped by Aberdeen as a kid was the making of me**
2018-11-27 22:33:28
https://www.heraldscotland.com/sport/17259929.scott-bain-being-dumped-by-aberdeen-as-a-kid-was-the-making-of-me/

  SCOTT Bain has been wrong-footed by Aberdeen once before. Here the goalkeeper was, aged 20, reflecting on his first season as part of the Pittodrie first team squad, when he was called into Craig Brown’s manager’s office.
 
  He thought he was about to be handed a new contract and shown where to sign. Instead he was handed his P45 and shown the door.
 
  Now 27, the goalkeeper feels that episode of Dons despair was the best thing that ever happened to him, as another recently-departed Aberdeen team-mate, Paul Hartley, remembered him and took him along to Alloa Athletic as he embarked on his first managerial career.
 
  Bain thinks fondly on his days developing his game at Recreation Park and even Dens Park with Dundee as they allowed him to make his mistakes ‘without anybody noticing’.
 
  That was certainly the case on his last appearance at Hampden, when Alloa recorded a 2-1 win against Queen’s Park in Scotland’s bottom tier with all of 711 paying customers watching on.
**
Scott Bain: A win at Ibrox would be even sweeter without fans**
2018-11-27 22:33:18
https://www.heraldscotland.com/sport/17259928.scott-bain-a-win-at-ibrox-would-be-even-sweeter-without-fans/

  SCOTT Bain, the Celtic goalkeeper, last night shrugged off the row over whether the Parkhead side might refuse their allocation for next month’s Old Firm match against Rangers – and said that such a scenario would only make the feeling sweeter for the players to win the match without them.
 
  It was confirmed at the Ibrox side’s AGM yesterday that there would be no change to the current plans to allocate 800 tickets, reduced than the usual 8000, to Celtic for the match on Saturday December 29 – a situation which led recently to Celtic chief executive Peter Lawwell saying the club might decline the allocation if they felt the safety of their travelling supporters couldn’t be guaranteed.
 
  Bain, who played in a 3-2 win by a ten-man Parkhead side at Ibrox in the corresponding fixture last season, was insistent that the amount of Celtic supporters in the crowd on the day wouldn’t affect the players’ determination to win the match.
 
  “Celtic supporters are fantastic, the best I have ever seen,” said the goalkeeper, who it was confirmed yesterday would play between the sticks during Sunday’s Betfred Cup semi-final. “There’s a lot of away games which are actually like home games because the fans are so loud.
 
  “The fans are obviously a big part, they push you through, and however many fans are there that day I am sure they are going to be loud and I am sure the boys are going to work and play as hard as they possibly can for them.
**
Scott Harrison: I know my return has left a few noses out of joint**
2018-11-27 22:33:09
https://www.heraldscotland.com/sport/17259927.scott-harrison-i-know-my-return-has-left-a-few-noses-out-of-joint/

  SCOTT Harrison knows a thing or two about putting people’s noses out of joint. The only difference this time is that the 41-year-old, twice WBO featherweight champion, feels that all it has taken to ruffle a few feathers in the fight game is simply refusing to retire from the sport he loves.
 
  The British Boxing Board of Control (BBBoC) are first in his firing line, for refusing to grant him a licence to fight after serving three years of the four-year prison stretch he was sentenced to after being convicted of an assault in Spain.
 
  Instead the Scot, appearing refreshingly free of his well publicised demons as he speaks after a public work-out at the same Phoenix ABC gym in Dalmarnock, will fight for the first time in five years under the auspices of the British and Irish Boxing Authority against Tackie Annan of Ghana at the Glasgow Club Bellahouston on December 8.
 
  He rails against the BBBoC, not least because their suspension flies in the face of the fact they had actually returned his licence to fight prior to his Spanish extradition case in 2014. Mike Tyson got a licence to fight in this country, while debates are ongoing about the likes of Chris Eubank, Nigel Benn, or Lennox Lewis fighting in their 50s.
 
  Boxing remains a huge part of his life, a sport which can provide for his partner Stacey and son Jack. Ideally, it would all end in a further world title but even if not, the sport can still offer him a shot at redemption.
**
Rangers MD Stewart Robertson insists players must be 'careful about their actions' on the park**
2018-11-27 17:19:25
https://www.heraldscotland.com/sport/17259533.rangers-md-stewart-robertson-insists-players-must-be-careful-about-their-actions-on-the-park/

  STEWART ROBERTSON insists players must be 'very careful' and ‘very conscious’ about their actions after Celtic's controversial Old Firm celebrations in September.
 
  Police Scotland have called for a crackdown on laps of honour at the end of derby clashes after trouble marred the 1-0 victory for Brendan Rodgers' side at Parkhead.
 
  Disabled supporters amongst the 800-strong away crowd were caught up in angry scenes as Gers fans responded to the Celtic players marking their win before making their way off the park.
 
  An internal Police memo claims that 'celebrations on the pitch' had 'inflamed an already delicate situation' but boss Rodgers hit back at that suggestion earlier this week and exonerated his players of any blame.
 
  The Old Firm will meet for the second time this term at Ibrox on December 29 and chairman Dave King gave an ‘absolute assurance’ to shareholders at the Rangers AGM on Tuesday morning that the Light Blues had 'no intention' of reversing the decision to cut the away allocation from around 7,000 to just a few hundred.
**
Aberdeen can beat Celtic this weekend and it's not as outlandish an idea as you might think**
2018-11-27 18:14:12
https://www.heraldscotland.com/sport/17259538.how-aberdeen-can-beat-celtic-this-weekend/

The first domestic silverware of the season is up for grabs on Sunday when Aberdeen and Celtic face each other in the League Cup in a repeat of the final two season ago. Celtic’s Brendan Rodgers will be looking to pick up the seventh trophy of his reign when the two sides meet on Sunday and the champions are surely the favourites to lift the trophy for the third consecutive season.
 
  Before the match at Hampden, Celtic have the small matter of an away trip to Rosenborg on Thursday night to contend with before pitching up at Hampden and this could work in Aberdeen’s favour. The Dons are certainly in with a shout should they perform as well as they can, and if - crucially - they can exploit any weaknesses in the Celtic team.
 
  The fact that the champions have another fixture to deal with while Derek McInnes has the entire week to prepare his team for the game is undoubtedly a bonus for the Aberdeen manager, particularly when Celtic’s domestic record after playing in Europe is examined.
 

 
  Celtic have played nine domestic games following European encounters so far this season, winning six. It’s the three games where they’ve slipped up that will interest McInnes, however. Livingston held Celtic to a goalless draw after their most recent European game, while Kilmarnock and Hearts have beaten Rodgers’ side in the immediate aftermath of continental football.
**
Steven Gerrard hopes to remain at Rangers for a 'very long time' after thanking Ibrox board for their backing**
2018-11-27 15:15:19
https://www.heraldscotland.com/sport/17259068.steven-gerrard-hopes-to-remain-at-rangers-for-a-very-long-time-after-thanking-ibrox-board-for-their-backing/

  STEVEN GERRARD hopes he will stay at Rangers ‘for a very long time’ after thanking the Ibrox board and Light Blue legions for their support so far this season.
 
  The Liverpool legend was appointed boss on a four-year contract in the summer and embarked on a major overhaul of his squad as 15 players signed on the dotted line.
 
  Rangers are second in the Premiership standings and just two points adrift of Old Firm rivals Celtic following their win over Livingston at the weekend.
 
  And victory over Villarreal on Thursday night would be a major boost to their chances of progressing to the knockout stages of the Europa League.
 
  It has been an impressive start from Gerrard in his first managerial position and the 38-year-old is pleased with the progress that has been made after attending his first Annual General Meeting in Glasgow.
**
Celtic manager Brendan Rodgers: don't point the finger at us**
2018-11-27 10:31:52
https://www.heraldscotland.com/sport/17257232.celtic-manager-brendan-rodgers-dont-point-the-finger-at-us/

  Brendan Rodgers, the Celtic manager, has exonerated his players of any wrongdoing in the aftermath of a Police Scotland report that suggested a lap of honour from the Parkhead side in the wake of their 1-0 win over Rangers in September was the catalyst for unrest within the Rangers support.
 
  Rodgers has maintained that his side make a point of applauding their support after every game - home and away -and has insisted that supporters also hold a burden of responsibility.
 
  It has been claimed that disabled fans in the Ibrox support were knocked over as a section of the 800-strong visiting crowd attempted to force their way onto the pitch as Celtic celebrated the win over Steven Gerrard’s side, an action described by police as the reason for the subsequent trouble.
 
  Tickets for the game had been cut from 8,000 to 800 for the first meeting of the season between the teams after Celtic had reciprocated a call from Rangers to reduce Celtic’s tickets for the game at Ibrox next month. That meant the Rangers support remained locked inside the ground as Celtic celebrated the win with a lap of honour around their home pitch.
 
  Rodgers was irked that his players have taken the brunt of the finger-pointing and has suggested that supporters need to be held to account for their behaviour inside the ground. The Celtic manager also bristled at the suggestion his players behaved differently in the aftermath of the win over Rangers that they do any other week.
**
Stewart Robertson insists Rangers will always fight their corner in referee row**
2018-11-27 16:59:40
https://www.heraldscotland.com/sport/17259446.stewart-robertson-insists-rangers-will-always-fight-their-corner-in-referee-row/

  IBROX chief Stewart Robertson insists Rangers will always fight their corner when it comes to the battle to raise refereeing standards in Scotland.
 
  The Light Blues have been vocal in their criticism of Willie Collum following Daniel Candeias’ red card in the win over St Mirren.
 
  Robertson was asked about the performance of match officials at Rangers’ Annual General Meeting on Tuesday and said: “The referees are handled and dealt with by the SFA and we have regular dialogue with the SFA. I think everyone wants to see the standard of refereeing be as high as it possibly can.
 
  “We don’t want games or players livelihoods affected by poor decisions and I know the SFA want that as well.
 
  “We need to make sure we are fighting the corner for Rangers and hopefully the standard will begin to improve.”
**
I have better options at left-back than Lee Wallace, says Rangers boss Steven Gerrard**
2018-11-27 16:33:31
https://www.heraldscotland.com/sport/17259372.i-have-better-options-at-left-back-than-lee-wallace-says-rangers-boss-steven-gerrard/

  STEVEN GERRARD admits Lee Wallace has a fight on his hands to force his way back into the Rangers starting line-up.
 
  The former Ibrox captain is behind Borna Barisic, Jon Flanagan and Andy Halliday in the pecking order at present.
 
  Gerrard said: “I have to pay my respects to Lee in terms of his professionalism and how he has gone about his business while he has been injured, and also the hard work to try and get himself match fit.
 
  “At the moment, to be really candid, he is still part of the plans while he is here, but I have better options at the moment in that position. My relationship with Lee is fine, he trains with us every day and he is pushing hard to regain his place in the team.”
**
Nick Rodger: Up for debate as golf conference plans for the future**
2018-11-27 06:00:00
https://www.heraldscotland.com/sport/17257225.nick-rodger-up-for-debate-as-golf-conference-plans-for-the-future/

  Well, at least that’s another of life’s grisly rituals over with for another year. The United States of America have given the world some appalling things – squeezy cheese, for instance, is marginally worse than Trump and boasts a terrifyingly similar colour – but nothing is more preposterous than Black Friday, a shopping tradition over there that’s now a shopping tradition over here.
 
  Do you want to watch a so-called sophisticated society gouge, elbow and kick its way towards the gutter? Yes? Then shove a “50 per cent off” label on a Kenwood blender, retreat to a safe distance and enjoy the chaos as boggle-eyed hordes embark on the kind of shelf-stripping frenzy that resembles a frothing shoal of piranha fish ripping a stricken wildebeest down to its bare bones. The fish, of course, are far more civilised in their pursuit.
 
  It’s a fevered old world where speed and convenience are demanded, often at the expense of quality – well, that’s what the sports editor said to me – and instant gratification is almost viewed as a basic human right. Funnily enough, the same head of sport didn’t display any sense of instant gratification when he read the Tuesday column.
 
  Society has become as fraught as a rabid gaggle in the jostling queue for a discounted household appliance and we all just have to strap ourselves in and cling on as best we can. In this birling centrifuge sits golf.
 
  This weekend in Edinburgh, the second national conference staged by Scottish Golf on the state of the game and how we can make things better takes place. All and sundry with a passion for this pursuit have been invited along to the open forum to share their views, listen to other views, hear more opinions, form some opinions, agree, disagree, nod their heads, shake their heads, maybe even their fists, and generally let their feelings be known. And then there will be a cup of tea and a finger buffet.
**
Prizes and pressure gives Derek McInnes motivation ahead of Betfred Cup final**
2018-11-27 06:00:00
https://www.heraldscotland.com/sport/17257229.prizes-and-pressure-gives-derek-mcinnes-motivation-ahead-of-betfred-cup-final/

  When Derek McInnes helped deliver Aberdeen’s first clump of silverware in 19 years back in 2014, the sigh of gasping, jubilant relief just about whipped up a tidal surge on the city’s esplanade.
 
  Nearly two decades without a trophy was such a prolonged drought, the Pittodrie trophy cabinet was in danger of appearing on SEPA’s Water Scarcity Index. With success, of course, comes heightened expectation and bigger demands. McInnes is well aware of that.
 
  “The motivation for an Aberdeen player or manager should always be to win trophies,” he said as the build up to this weekend’s Betfred Cup final with Celtic began yesterday with a media sit down with the respective managers at Hampden. “When I look back to the first final (in 2014), when we won in my first year, that was a trophy that we just had to win.
 
  “The weight of expectation was on everybody, especially myself, for that one. And I still feel the weight of expectation, even though it’s our fourth final in a short period of time. It (one trophy) is not enough but I’d rather be in semi-finals and finals than being dumped out. Criticism comes when you don’t win them, but at least we’re not being criticised for not getting to them.
 
  “I’m proud of the fact we’ve been to so many semi-finals and finals and have been in Europe every year. No other team outwith Celtic has done that in Scotland and I’m proud of this team.
**
James Forrest out to turn up the heat on Rosenborg as Celtic look for first away Europa League win**
2018-11-27 22:31:00
https://www.heraldscotland.com/sport/17259375.james-forrest-out-to-turn-up-the-heat-on-rosenborg-as-celtic-look-for-first-away-europa-league-win/

  Freezing temperatures await Celtic when they land in Trondheim this afternoon but that will not stop James Forrest from trying to turn the heat up on the Norwegian champions.
 
  Brendan Rodgers' side realistically need a win from the Europa League meeting against Rosenborg to set them up for the conclusive game against group leaders Salzburg. But Forrest, who netted the only goal of the game against Rosenborg in a Champions League qualifiers sixteen months ago, believes that Celtic are capable of emerging from a ground that has become a home from home for them with the result they need.
 
  This week’s trip to the Lerkendal Stadium will be the third time Celtic have played there in the last16 months given that the two team have been paired in the Champions League qualifiers in successive seasons. And yet, if the assignment of going to Trondheim and emerging with a win that would keep them within a chance of qualifying out of the group has been presented as relatively straightforward, Celtic's track record would underline the perils it could present; in 14 away games in the Europa League, Celtic are yet to win on the road. It is something that Forrest would like to correct. We’ve two hard games left but we’ll give it our all," said the in-form winger.
 
  “Beating Leipzig gives us hope. It was a really good performance against a strong side.
 
  "We knew we had to win that night and we did, which was a positive for us as we try to put on the kind of show we’ll need in Norway.
**
Long driving the name of the game for Glasgow golfer Ilona Stubley**
2018-11-27 11:40:05
https://www.heraldscotland.com/sport/17258403.long-driving-the-name-of-the-game-for-glasgow-golfer-ilona-stubley/

  There are plenty of folk used to a long drive here in Caledonia. Anybody who been forced into a diversion at the Rest and Be Thankful, for instance, will vouch for the scunnered truth in that particular statement. Glasgow golfer Ilona Stubley is no stranger to raking distances. And mercifully, that doesn’t includes closures on the A83 and 60 mile detours. As the UK’s Long Driving Champion – and by that we mean the No 1 at battering a golf ba’ off a tee and into the great wide open – Stubley’s game is all about gains. “It’s very addictive,” said the 34-year-old. “You get a bit more serious and you go on the launch monitor and you see you have added a bit of distance and you start thinking ‘I wonder if I could add a wee bit more?’. Initially the goal was to break the 300-yard barrier but then it got to the point where I was more than breaking that. Once you hit a goal, there’s always another one to aim for.”
 
  In a technologically advanced age when all and sundry are getting more distance off the tee, whether it’s the hang-on-to-your hats bombers at the top of the pro game or auld Davy at Linn Park Municipal, the quest to find that little bit more is par for the course.
 
  Stubley could do with a little bit more herself on the competition front. Long driving events require long hauls. With events in China, the US, the Middle East and South Africa, the Scot’s lack of funding leads to a lot of thumb-twiddling. “There are plenty of events but getting to them is difficult,” she added. “It’s a bit uncertain. I won the UK finals and went to the World Championships but I may have to wait until the UK Finals again in the new year to get some competition. It is frustrating. When you watch it the TV, you just want to be there. It gets good coverage on the TV, particularly in the US where it attracts a younger audience who wouldn’t necessarily be into golf. I’m still relatively new to this too and I want to build up my experience.”
 
  In her teenage years, Stubley embarked on a golf scholarship in the USA but, like many, the move across the pond didn’t quite work out. Upon returning to her home city she had “kind of lost the love for the game” but a casual meander round the stands and exhibits at the Scottish Golf Show a couple of years ago stirred a passion for a different type of golf.
 
  “There was a stand with long driving for ladies and someone there saying ‘come and have a go and see how far you can hit’,” recalled Stubley, who was a dab hand at tennis before golf became her main sporting focus. “So I gave it a go and after a couple of hits they said ‘you’ll need to come back for regional qualifying for the UK Championships’. I’d entered something I didn’t know anything about by accident. I went home and started reading up on it. That was it. I got hooked.”
**
Frank McAvennie: Celtic not signing John McGinn was a blessing in disguise**
2018-11-27 22:32:00
https://www.heraldscotland.com/sport/17259425.frank-mcavennie-celtic-not-signing-john-mcginn-was-a-blessing-in-disguise/

  Former Celt Frank McAvennie believes that Parkhead's failure to land John McGinn from Hibs this summer has enabled Ryan Christie to emerge at the club. McGinn opted to sign for Aston Villa after a protracted and public summer of transfer interest and negotiation from Celtic and while the Parkhead side were widely criticised for their failure to sign the Scotland internationalist, McAvennie has described as a blessing in disguise.
 
  "If they’d signed McGinn I don’t think there’s any doubt that Christie was on his way," he said.
 
  "It just shows you the part luck plays in football. If Ntcham and Brown hadn’t got injured Christie might also have been on his way.
 
  "But he’s in. It’s all about taking that chance and he’s done it.
 
  "I’ll be honest with you about Christie and admit I thought he would move on because he wasn’t good enough. Every time someone touched him he went down.
**
Lampard the player for Ferguson as Dons youngster targets similar playing style**
2018-11-27 22:34:03
https://www.heraldscotland.com/sport/17259931.lampard-the-player-for-ferguson-as-dons-youngster-targets-similar-playing-style/

  Lewis Ferguson recognises dad Derek and uncle Barry distinguished themselves as midfielders at the highest level in football.
 
  But the Aberdeen youngster’s on-field role model, whose style he aspires to emulate, is the former Chelsea and England captain Frank Lampard, regarded by many as one of the greatest midfield players of his generation.
 
  Teenager Ferguson, with a father and an uncle who each wore the blue of Rangers before their careers took them to a wide range of other clubs north and south of the border, is seen as a key player for the Dons as they aim to upset the odds in the Betfred League Cup final against Celtic at Hampden on Sunday.
 
  It's an occasion which, he admits, will not faze him. Instead, he’ll look to ape some of the technique that made his hero such an inspirational figure who won a raft of honours, including 106 England caps.
 
  "I watched a lot of Frank Lampard when he played since I was a wee boy,” said the 19-year-old former Hamilton player.
**
McDermott tips old foe Fury to out-point Wilder**
2018-11-27 22:32:12
https://www.heraldscotland.com/sport/17259922.mcdermott-tips-old-foe-fury-to-out-point-wilder/

  The only fighter considered to have beaten Tyson Fury as a professional believes his one-time rival is ready to out-point Deontay Wilder.
 
  John McDermott was controversially scored the loser when he largely outfought the then inexperienced Fury in 2009, forcing the undefeated former world heavyweight champion into what remains his toughest fight.
 
  A rivalry that captured the imagination of both the boxing and travelling communities – like Fury, the 37-year-old McDermott is also of travelling stock – only concluded the following year when Fury adapted and improved to win in nine rounds.
 
  If McDermott had undermined the reputation of an already-promising fighter, his own has since grown with Fury's impressive accomplishments.
 
  On Saturday at Los Angeles' Staples Center, Fury challenges the heavy-handed Wilder– and despite concerns about his inactivity and still maintaining he beat him, McDermott has predicted Fury will win once again.
**
Weir: Falling back in love with wheelchair racing has saved my life**
2018-11-27 22:33:00
https://www.heraldscotland.com/sport/17259926.weir-falling-back-in-love-with-wheelchair-racing-has-saved-my-life/

  For six-time Paralympic champion David Weir, wheelchair racing has been his career and his salvation.
 
  The 39-year-old from Wallington, Surrey, thought his depression was exacerbated by training. But he realised getting back in his racing chair and doing what he does best was a release – and now Weir has a sixth Paralympic Games in his sights at Tokyo 2020.
 
  "Falling back in love with wheelchair racing has saved my life," said Weir. "At first I thought training was the thing that was making me depressed, because I didn't really want to do it any more.
 
  "Then I realised, reading a lot of reports on mental health, how physical activity can sort your head out a lot.
 
  "I didn't think that, because I thought racing was my career and it's my job. I was seeing it that way instead of a mental tool for me, to make myself better.
**
Lyon 2 Manchester City: Guardiola's men off colour but do enough to book last-16 spot**
2018-11-27 22:34:15
https://www.heraldscotland.com/sport/17259935.lyon-2-manchester-city-guardiolas-men-off-colour-but-do-enough-to-book-last-16-spot/

  Aymeric Laporte and Sergio Aguero struck as Manchester City twice came from behind to qualify for the Champions League last 16 with a 2-2 draw at Lyon.
 
  The outstanding Maxwel Cornet grabbed both goals for the hosts, who outplayed the Premier League champions for large spells at the Groupama Stadium.
 
  The Ivory Coast forward opened the scoring in the 55th minute and restored the lead after Laporte's first equaliser, but Aguero had the final word.
 
  The result was enough to ensure City will play in the knockout stages ,but they will have to wait until the visit of Hoffenheim next month to try to secure top spot in Group F.
 
  Given the way the game unfolded, City will be glad to be leaving France with a result.
**
Cricket: England head coach Bayliss believes Stokes has learned his lesson**
2018-11-27 22:34:10
https://www.heraldscotland.com/sport/17259932.cricket-england-head-coach-bayliss-believes-stokes-has-learned-his-lesson/

  Ben Stokes has been lauded for his "exemplary" conduct by England head coach Trevor Bayliss, who believes the all-rounder has learned a lot during a difficult year.
 
  Stokes played a typically whole-hearted role in the 3-0 series whitewash over Sri Lanka, bowling intimidating spells on pitches that neutered other seam bowlers, scoring a pair of half-centuries and producing moments of tide-turning magic in the field.
 
  It was all a stark reminder of the bristling, bloody-minded brilliance that England missed during last winter's Ashes – a tour Stokes was removed from in the aftermath of a late night incident in Bristol which has still to reach a conclusion.
 
  In August the 27-year-old was cleared of affray in crown court but will return home to face a Cricket Discipline Commission hearing taking place on December 5 and 7.
 
  Both Stokes and England limited-overs team-mate Alex Hales have been charged with bringing the game into disrepute or actions deemed "prejudicial to the interests of cricket".
**
Manchester United 1 Young Boys 0: Lineker blasts Mourinho over Rashford reaction**
2018-11-27 22:58:06
https://www.heraldscotland.com/sport/17259966.manchester-united-1-young-boys-0-lineker-blasts-mourinho-over-rashford-reaction/

  Gary Lineker has criticised Jose Mourinho for showing disgust at Marcus Rashford for missing a chance in Manchester United's 1-0 Champions League victory over Young Boys.
 
  Marouane Fellaini's injury-time winner spared United's blushes and sent them through to the last 16 of the competition.
 
  Until then, it had been a painful night for United, who came within seconds of going three European home games without scoring for the first time.
 
  England striker Rashford wasted a glorious chance in the fifth minute, chipping over the Young Boys crossbar when clean through.
 
  Mourinho showed his disapproval on the touchline by turning to his backroom staff and shaking his head.
**
Margaret Taylor: Brexiteers’ fishing lies make the case for a People’s Vote**
2018-11-27 05:17:03
https://www.heraldscotland.com/news/17257666.margaret-taylor-brexiteers-fishing-lies-make-the-case-for-a-peoples-vote/

  ONE of the enduring images of the Brexit referendum campaign is that of self-appointed Leaver-in-chief Nigel Farage leading a flotilla of boats down the Thames into the waiting arms of Remain activist and one-time Boomtown Rat Bob Geldof. Though the scene descended into farce as the two sides clashed over the impending vote, the fishermen who had accompanied the then Ukip leader were there to highlight a serious point: the need, as they saw it, for the UK to “take back control of our waters”.
 
  As expected, the fishing industry voted overwhelmingly in support of the UK’s withdrawal from Europe, enthused by the prospect of finally being able to extricate itself from the hated Common Fisheries Policy (CFP). Having grown up in the north-east of Scotland and witnessed the decline of once-thriving fishing towns like Fraserburgh and Peterhead, it was easy to understand why. Designed to safeguard the sustainability of the seas, the CFP necessarily restricted the size of the catch local vessels could bring in, with the number of fishermen working on Scottish boats halving between the 1970s and the late 2000s as a result. The north-east, which accounts for around a quarter of the total Scottish workforce, bore the brunt of that decline, with Fraserburgh seeing numbers fall by 54 per cent while in Peterhead they dropped by 42 per cent.
 
  The damage this has wreaked on the local economy has been immense, with high streets that in the 1980s were filled with bustling shops and chintzy cafes all but dead while the windows of countless private residences, once resplendent with Royal Doulton figurines, have been boarded up. With heroin addiction continuing to claim the lives of too many youngsters who at one time would have been destined for a life at sea, wouldn’t you too have voted to break away from the remote political institution whose desk-bound bureaucrats had caused all those ills?
 
  The problem is that holding the EU –and the CFP in particular – responsible for all the problems that have befallen such communities ignores the influence of way too many other factors. Such as the fact that the licences required to operate within the rules of the CFP have been allocated by the UK and Scottish governments in such a way that large super-trawlers have been able to flourish at the expense of the smaller-scale fishermen who were once the mainstay of the fishing industry. Indeed, while there are more than 2,000 vessels licensed to fish in Scotland, in 2016 two-thirds of the catch by weight was landed by just 19 super-trawlers.
 
  Or the fact that the heroin epidemic that has rendered so many in the north-east incapable of following their forbears out to sea sprang up due to an abundance, rather than lack of, wealth. Though fishermen had long been known for their hard-drinking ways when back on shore, the nineties generation began dabbling in narcotics, spending their hard-earned but plentiful cash on party drugs before making the inevitable move on to heroin and addiction.
**
Neil Mackay: Time to make tough choices and bring the internet to heel**
2018-11-27 05:04:52
https://www.heraldscotland.com/news/17257618.neil-mackay-time-to-make-tough-choices-and-bring-the-internet-to-heel/

  IF the internet had an off switch, I’d flick it right now.
 
  It’s not that I’m a luddite who despises technology and wishes for an Amish-style golden age of Spinning Jennies – I just know a bad thing when I see it. And the internet is now well and truly bad. Of course, no technology is bad in and of itself, it can only assume a moral dimension thanks to the purpose humanity puts it to – but we humans have definitely pointed the web down a dark and nasty path.
 
  New research shows that 60 per cent of Britons believe at least one conspiracy theory. People who voted Brexit are more likely to believe a conspiracy theory, but Remainers are far from immune – 71 per cent of Leave voters believed at least one outlandish tinfoil-hatted scare story, compared to 49 per cent of pro-EU voters. Some 31 per cent of Leavers believed Muslim migration was part of a plot to create an Islamic majority in the UK – six per cent of Remainers believed the same nonsense.
 
  I don’t raise this issue to make a political point – I raise it to make a social point, for these conspiracy theories are bred online. The research was conducted over six years and in nine countries by academics at Cambridge University and pollsters at YouGov. One of the lead researchers, John Naughton, found that conspiracy theorists were early adopters of the internet as they realised it could help peddle their madness where the mainstream media – with its experts, facts, and statistics – would not. Professor Naughton calls the top tier of conspiracy theorists – the likes of David Icke with his lizards, and Alex Jones with his InfoWars – “conspiracy entrepreneurs”, as they make a hell of a lot of money out of propagating claims that a monkey in a tree would have trouble believing.
 
  The internet allows lies to prosper –whether it’s claims that Jews run the world, or the Democratic Party is a paedophile ring, or Muslims are taking over Europe – and these lies play into our politics, infect and inform it, distort it.
**
Herald View: A humane response to a troubling issue**
2018-11-27 05:07:16
https://www.heraldscotland.com/opinion/17257636.herald-view-a-humane-response-to-a-troubling-issue/

  SCHOOL holidays, particularly the endless ones of summer, offer endless opportunities for fun and relaxation, not to mention family vacations in sunny coastal resorts at home or abroad. For many families, however, the reality is considerably less palatable. Authoritative reports speak of the crisis that envelops these households during the holidays, when school kitchens are shut.
 
  An All-Party Parliamentary report from Westminster in 2017 warned that going hungry in the school holidays was a growing problem for up to three million children across the UK. The Trussell Trust says its food banks are accustomed to increased demand for emergency food during the vacations from families reliant on free school meals during term time.
 
  There is much to commend in the report to the Scottish Government by the Poverty and Inequality Commission, which recommends an extra cash benefit during school holidays that at least matches the equivalent costs of school meals. It urges a co-ordinated package of school-holiday support for low-income families and more holiday clubs offering nutritious food for children.
 
  The report is a humane response to a problem that is, all too often, invisible, or at least overlooked. Pupils spend a quarter of their year not in school, depriving them of free meals and breakfast clubs. Many parents go hungry in order to feed their children during these periods.The Scottish Government has already allocated substantial extra funds to address the issue of school holiday food insecurity.
 
  Some questions pose themselves. What would the sporadic new benefit mean in terms of workload for whichever hard-pressed body has to administer it? How exactly would the new measures be paid for? Would struggling middle-class families be eligible?
**
Obituary: Baroness Trumpington, Bletchley veteran and outspoken peeress**
2018-11-27 12:22:00
https://www.heraldscotland.com/opinion/17258548.obituary-baroness-trumpington-bletchley-veteran-and-outspoken-peeress/

  Bletchley veteran and outspoken peeress
 
  Born: October 23, 1922;
 
  Died: November 26, 2018
 
  The REDOUBTABLE Baroness Trumpington, who has died aged 96, was a former Tory minister and government whip who delighted in the nicknames of Baroness Battleaxe and Trumpers and was one of the recognised characters of the House of Lords – admired and respected by everyone. She gained a wide notoriety when, listening to a speech by Lord (Tom) King in 2011 in the House of Lords, he referred to her age. She responded with a two-fingered salute which went viral on social media. She offered the same salute to Ken Clarke at an Oldie lunch.
 
  She was indefatigable. When invited to be a panellist on Have I Got News For You, aged 90, she announced when introduced that the BBC had made her sign a form to confirm she was not pregnant.
**
Obituary: Janette Valentine, activist, writer and poet**
2018-11-27 06:00:02
https://www.heraldscotland.com/opinion/17257745.obituary-janette-valentine-activist-writer-and-poet/

  Activist, writer and poet
 
  Born: January 25, 1934;
 
  Died: November 18, 2018
 
  JANETTE Valentine, who has died aged 84 was a Govanite whose many talents led to a life of adventures and a varied career as an activist, writer and poet. Her early days at Govan High and the McGregor Memorial Church saw her produce many shows and she was a mainstay in the Govan Fair in the 1950s.
 
  Her young family of four grew up initially in Aberdeen where she was a promising youth worker at the Bee Hive youth club in Northfield. An interview with the local newspaper highlighted her sense of community spirit and an early indication of her political leanings as she expressed her disappointment at the Church’s lack of condemnation of the Vietnam War.
**
Obituary: Pilmar Smith, businessman, Labour activist and vice chairman of Heart of Midlothian**
2018-11-27 04:51:06
https://www.heraldscotland.com/opinion/17257599.obituary-pilmar-smith-businessman-labour-activist-and-vice-chairman-of-heart-of-midlothian/

  Businessman, Labour activist and vice chairman of Heart of Midlothian
 
  Born: August 6, 1931;
 
  Died: November 20, 2018
 
  PILMAR Smith, who has died aged 87, was an exceptional individual who in the course of a long life achieved much success in business and public life while earning and retaining the affection and respect of all with whom he came in contact. Most readily identifiable to many through his association with Heart of Midlothian Football Club of whom he was a lifelong fan, and director and vice chairman for over a decade from the early 1980s onwards, he was also a very successful bookmaker in Edinburgh for many years, making his name through greyhound racing at Powderhall.
 
  Politically he was a staunch Labour Party and trade union activist from an early age, whose guiding principle was that everyone should be given an equal chance in life irrespective of beginnings. Extremely well connected with the upper echelons of the Labour and trade union movement, he was chairman of the East Lothian constituency party until 2006.
**
Letters: How did they get away with their lies over Shetland oil field?**
2018-11-27 09:26:05
https://www.heraldscotland.com/opinion/17257681.letters-how-did-they-get-away-with-their-lies-over-shetland-oil-field/

  THE report by Mark Williamson that BP expects the Clair Ridge oil field “to recover 640 million barrels with production set to last for decades” ("Giant Shetland field start spurs oil industry", Herald Business, November 23) is certainly encouraging for the future of the oil industry in Scotland. In the face of the earlier precipitous collapse in price, though now recovering, it is good news BP and its partners have been willing to invest $4.5 billion in “one of the biggest [investment programmes] on the United Kingdom Continental Shelf for years”.
 
  Clair, though, is not a recent discovery, being known about since 1977, which at first appeared a “big find”. However, further analysis revealed “a technically complex reservoir that far surpassed the industry’s technological ability at the time” according to Bill Senior, the geologist in charge of the exploration, rendering it uneconomic till oil production technology caught up. Now it has, as your report notes, the development of the Clair field increases “hopes other developments in the frontier area West of Shetland could unlock billions of barrels oil and gas” in addition to the 120,000 barrels a day Clair Ridge will produce at peak – more than Scotland uses per day. However, most importantly it points to how additional oil reserves could be developed, despite posing what previously seemed insurmountable geological and production difficulties. Nor are these reserves only west of Shetland but could be found at various points right down the west of Scotland, according to “Potential future exploration opportunities, UK Rockall Basin” (DECC 2013).
 
  However, one matter has received little attention. In 2014 the pro-independence website Yes International reported that a visit to Shetland by David Cameron “was shrouded in secrecy and linked this to an unnamed source reportedly saying that test drilling in BP’s Clair Ridge project (phase three) had “far exceeded expectations”.” In response the then Scottish Secretary, Alistair Carmichael, gave his personal assurance that “these rumours are quite ridiculous. If there was any truth in this suggestion that there has been a massive oil discovery and that it was being kept secret, then surely the last thing the Prime Minister would do would be visiting where you could only draw attention to it”. Perhaps it’s true that Mr Cameron just liked Shetland in August, but it is more likely that Mr Williamson’s report in your newspaper confirms that Mr Carmichael, and the entire Unionist campaign, owe Yes International a full apology, and arguably the whole Scottish electorate.
 
  Moreover, others from the No side piled in. Murdo Fraser MSP tweeted on August 4, 2014: “I know all about the secret oil field. But I can’t tell any of you. It’s a secret." The Yes campaign was laughed at and vilified for its claims of conspiracy. Yet here we are today, with an oil field, just off Shetland, capable of producing up to 120,000 barrels a day, developed at a cost of $4.5bn and suggesting how even more could be produced. Yet in 2014 we were assured it didn’t exist. How did they get away with it?
 
  Alasdair Galloway,
**
Obituary: John Blain, leading figure in physical education**
2018-11-27 17:22:26
https://www.heraldscotland.com/opinion/17259540.obituary-john-blain-leading-figure-in-physical-education/

  Leading figure in physical education
 
  Born: May 26, 1922;
 
  Died: July 25, 2018
 
  JOHN Blain, who has died aged 96, was very well known in physical education. He lectured on the subject, he was a senior advisor in Dunbartonshire and he was a leading figure in the Scottish Association for Physical Education. For many years he also organised a schools tennis tournament and was known for introducing many young people to sport.
 
  He was born in Port Glasgow and educated at the John Neilson Institution in Paisley. He trained as a PE teacher at the Scottish School of Physical Education at Jordanhill, before being enlisted into the Army Ordnance Corps in 1942. Most of his service was spent on the island of Hoy in Orkney, constructing, operating and repairing radio location equipment – an early form of radar.
**
Letters: Hope for the future must now lie in Scotland's internationalist approach**
2018-11-27 05:21:35
https://www.heraldscotland.com/news/17257677.letters-hope-for-the-future-must-now-lie-in-scotlands-internationalist-approach/

  JUST the other day we remembered the First World War with our well-kent mix of feelings, pride, sorrow and anger. That dreadful war resulted in the Treaty of Versailles, an equally dreadful deal from which Europe suffered grievously.
 
Theresa May has brought back from Flanders another dreadful deal (“May: There is no Plan B for Brexit and you will not get better deal”, The Herald, November 26). What is there in this dispiriting, comfortless deal to which we could raise a glass and say “well done”? Nothing. What is there in these tedious 600 pages of reductionist compromise that we can truly value? Where in this Mrs May’s deal (for it is her deal both in its anxious character and little substance) is there anything that makes anyone truly pleased or satisfied?
 
  At a time when we have pathetic petulant governance on the Potomac, Europe should now be a counterbalance of rational stability. Instead what did we see on the very day of this debilitating deal? The Russians seized this moment of weakness and acted in its typical brutish manner in the Balkans.
 
  Europe and the UK and all of our many millions have lost so much in this dreadful deal. We have lost power retreating behind our British-Tory nationalism; lost international credibility, lost European social cohesion and incredible economic value. Perhaps there is a way out via Scotland’s internationalism gaining its rightful (and historic role) in Europe?
 
  Thom Cross,
**
Wendy takes flight to centre stage as Peter Pan is re-imagined**
2018-11-27 05:28:28
https://www.heraldscotland.com/arts_ents/17257718.wendy-takes-flight-to-centre-stage-as-peter-pan-is-re-imagined/

  WHEN Ella Hickson first saw Peter Pan onstage, J.M. Barrie’s tale about the little boy who never grew up captured her imagination. Like most little girls, Hickson was asked to identify with Wendy, who becomes Peter’s sidekick as he magics her and her siblings to Neverland.
 
  A couple of decades on, Hickson’s own stage version of Barrie’s story is about to redress the gender balance in Wendy and Peter Pan at the Royal Lyceum Theatre, Edinburgh for the festive season. Despite this, that first experience of Barrie’s story has stayed with her.
 
  “It was the flying,” Hickson explains, with more than a hint of wonder in her voice. “I think it’s the only kids story that has flying in it in a very clear and robust way. It’s magic, but it’s not about wizards. If Peter Pan was invented now it would be hard to pitch as a story. It’s not science-fiction and it’s not witchy. It has a fantasy element, but it’s about the power of imagination. That’s quite a hard sell.”
 
  This didn’t stop Hickson writing her version for the Royal Shakespeare Company in 2013 for a production featuring an eye-wateringly large cast of 23. While Eleanor Rhode’s new production won’t have that luxury, it will feature the starry presence of Isobel McArthur as Wendy and Sally Reid as Tinker Bell, here a much more grounded Tink.
 
  The result is a story which, while fun for all ages, has a seriousness at its core that comes from Hickson looking at both Barrie’s novel and incidents from the author’s life which fed into much of his work. This stems in particular from the death of Barrie’s elder brother in an ice skating accident the day before his 14th birthday. It was he who Barrie based the idea of a boy who never grew up.
**
ARTS NEWS: Improvisers festival in Glasgow, Steamie nights for Hydro, Scottish artist's ICA show**
2018-11-27 05:07:06
https://www.heraldscotland.com/arts_ents/17257634.arts-news-improvisers-festival-in-glasgow-steamie-nights-for-hydro-scottish-artists-ica-show/

  GLASGOW Improvisers Orchestra is to hold an international festival from 29 November to 1 December.
 
  This year's festival features musicians from around Europe, north America and Australia, including 10 members from the Dutch ensemble Instant Composers Pool.
 
  In another event with Ceol's Craoic, singer Margaret Stewart will curate musical material and invite special guests to take part including Alasdair Whyte, Ross Whyte, Ailie Robertson and Calabrian saxophone & bagpipe player Christian Ferlaino, with live visuals from Jean McEwan.
 
  Also performing new work will be Australia Art Orchestra's Director Peter Knight and musician Aviva Endean, the result of an artist-in-residence Scotland/Australia musician transfer project with GIO.
 
  Instant Places from Canada host a special interactive session with music and visuals whilst Swiss concert pianist and improviser Raphael Sudan also performs.
**
The day in pictures:  16 photographs that made today's news**
2018-11-27 17:00:00
https://www.heraldscotland.com/life_style/17259170.16-stunning-photographs-making-the-news-on-nov-27th/
 
  Today's featured photographs are taken from natural events, travel features and the top news and sports stories.
  The photographs have been selected by the Herald and Times picture editors using resources exclusive to our titles from news desks around the world.
**
Former shipyard venue for Scotland's show in Venice**
2018-11-27 10:33:29
https://www.heraldscotland.com/news/17258160.former-shipyard-venue-for-scotlands-show-in-venice/

  A VENUE in the former shipyard of Venice will play host to Scotland's show at the world's biggest visual arts festival.
 
  The show to be staged by artist Charlotte Prodger at the 58th International Art Exhibition, the Biennale, will be in the Arsenale Docks, part of the Cucchini shipyard in the canal city.
 
  The last Scotland + Venice show, by Rachel Maclean, was in a church away from the main centre of art exhibitions at the Biennale, but Ms Prodger's show will be located in an area between the Arsenale and Giardini - or gardens - locations at the heart of the festival.
 
  The venue overlooks the Canal di Sant’Anna and is close to two water bus stops.
 
  Scotland has had an independent art show, separate from the UK Pavilion, since the 2003 Biennale.
**
Music review: RSNO/Sondergard at Glasgow Royal Concert Hall**
2018-11-26 10:12:40
https://www.heraldscotland.com/arts_ents/17255723.music-review-rsnosondergard-at-glasgow-royal-concert-hall/

  Music
 
  RSNO/Sondergard
 
Glasgow Royal Concert Hall
 
  Keith Bruce
 
  four stars
**
Joanna Blythman reviews the Register Club in Edinburgh**
2018-11-26 08:24:15
https://www.heraldscotland.com/life_style/17255545.joanna-blythman-reviews-the-register-club-in-edinburgh/

  “Austerity is over” according to Theresa May. I’ve yet to meet anyone who sees eye to eye with her over that. But as we walk into the Register Club, an environment so splendid that it instantly makes us feel like the scruffy poor relations, I realise that for some people, austerity is an utter irrelevance. When one of us asks for Prosecco, the go-to drink of the common people in bubbly mood, our waiter apologises in the most pleasant way he possibly can. “Sorry, we only serve champagne.” That’s Billecart-Salmon Cuvée 2007 at £19 a glass he’s talking about.
 
  Well of course, what else would you serve in such sumptuous premises? Before we entered the bankers-as-enemies-of-the-people era when Fred the Shred hung out here, buildings like these embodied mercantile grandeur, the gilded wealth of capitalism. Now banks feel the heat of customer resentment, they plead poverty, close ordinary branches on the high street and know not to flaunt their wealth. They tout their lavish corporate HQs for sale to corporations, typically chain restaurants; but not in this instance. The 1825 National Bank of Scotland, latterly the Royal Bank of Scotland, has become The Edinburgh Grand, swanky serviced apartments, with a fourth floor bar, the Register Club, that’s open to the public. It is operated by the sole independent, Scottish-owned restaurant group on Edinburgh’s St Andrews Square. Thank heavens it didn’t become a Wetherspoons, the depressing fate that awaits faded buildings of architectural note with major repairs bills looming. So I’d come here for the place alone. It’s like having the most splendid imaginable Doors Open Day.
 
  Take the stairs up if you can, a billionaire’s helter-skelter spiral that’s redolent of Hitchcock’s Vertigo, made all the more striking by a bold, new black and white carpet that’s Greek Key pattern in style. A dazzling geometry that just has to be seen. The Register Club itself is in the former board room, with its stunning American oak panelling carved so lovingly by master cabinetmakers, Whytock & Reid. It’s lit in a kindly way, diffused. You eat in comfy, if ergonomically challenging chairs around low-slung tables; it’s very definitely a grazing place. A restaurant proper is on its way.
 
  Six truffled cheese Gougères are a steal for £6: the choux pastry profoundly cheesy and fired to an immaculate airy dryness; the filling is subtle; truffle pecorino dusted over. A bowl of lobster bisque costs £12 but this brick-red crustacean broth with its taut croutons, its bracelet of rouille, and plump chunks of succulent lobster meat is demonstrably worth it. Personally I prefer it to the New England lobster roll. It’s spilling over with lobster meat, marinated cucumber, and a green mayonnaise that packs a horseradish punch, but I always find those soft submarine rolls too cloying in a savoury context.
 
  Me and the chef don’t see eye to eye on Pissaladière. He’s used a shortcrust-like pastry, piled caramelised onions high on top of it, and used vinegary silver anchovies. In my book it should be more of a bread dough base, there’s a lot less onion, it has to be brown anchovies in oil, and lots more black olives. We’ll have to agree to differ. And its rocket and red onion salad on the side is banal. But I’m totally onside with the crab and avocado atop its homemade, cracker-like crispbread, loving the lightly toasted black sesame seeds strewn over it, the chilli and lime attack that ripples through it.
**
Review: Life Is A Dream, Festival Theatre, Edinburgh**
2018-11-26 18:24:02
https://www.heraldscotland.com/arts_ents/17257159.review-life-is-a-dream-festival-theatre-edinburgh/

  Dance
 
  Life Is A Dream
 
  Festival Theatre, Edinburgh
 
  Mary Brennan
 
  ***
**
Hundreds of jobs to be created in £30m Ayrshire port redevelopment**
2018-11-27 19:32:38
https://www.heraldscotland.com/business_hq/17257130.hundreds-of-jobs-to-be-created-in-30m-ayrshire-port-redevelopment/

  Hundreds of jobs are to be created with the multi-million redevelopment of a Scots port and marine yard into a decommissioning and renewables hub.
 
  Scottish Enterprise has approved a funding offer of £10 million towards Peel Ports’ £30m proposed project to redevelop its Hunterston Port and Resource Centre site in North Ayrshire
 
  The backing will help Peel Ports to unlock private sector investment for the site, which has been in operation since the 1970s.
 
Read more: Highland port to undergo £30m revamp to welcome world's biggest cruise ships
 
  The project will go before the Peel Ports board for final approval in January and the dry dock facility is expected to "move quickly thereafter".
**
War of words ignited by hostile oil takeover bid**
2018-11-27 05:30:52
https://www.heraldscotland.com/business_hq/17257724.war-of-words-ignited-by-hostile-bid-from-dno-of-norway-for-aberdeen-oil-independent-faroe/

  SHARES in Aberdeen-based Faroe Petroleum last night closed well above the level of a hostile takeover bid launched yesterday by Norwegian player DNO, signalling the City does not expect the offer to succeed on current terms.
 
  Relations between the Aberdeen oil and gas independent and sector stablemate DNO, which has a stake of more than 28 per cent in Faroe, have been far from harmonious, and the hostile bid yesterday sparked a fresh war of words between the pair.
 
  The Norwegian company’s executive chairman, Bijan Mossavar-Rahmani, declared Faroe’s assets would be “better placed in the bosom of DNO”.
 
  The DNO bid, which values Faroe at around £607.9 million, comes after a sharp fall in oil prices in recent weeks.
 
  John Bentley, non-executive chairman of Faroe, declared the view of his company’s board that DNO’s unsolicited 152p-a-share all-cash offer was “opportunistic” and “inadequate”.
**
Markets lower on Brexit, Italy and US-China woes**
2018-11-27 17:58:02
https://www.heraldscotland.com/business_hq/17259623.heading-here/

  MARKETS traded lower on Tuesday on investor concerns over Britain's departure form the European Union, Italy's budget issues and US-China trade tensions.
 
  The FTSE 100 closed 19.15 points, or 0.3 per cent, lower at 7,016.85.
 
  France's Cac was down 0.2%, while Germany's Dax fell 0.4%.
 
  David Madden, market analyst at CMC Markets, said: "Stock markets are in the red following yesterday's bullish move. Fears regarding US-China trade, Italy's budget and Brexit all play into the mix.
 
  "President Trump warned that the levy on Chinese imports might be increased, and further tariffs could be announced. This dampened investors' hopes about a deal being struck at the G20 summit."
**
Liz Cameron: 'Making shopping more accessible at this busy time of year would be a worthwhile pursuit for all retailers'**
2018-11-27 12:13:41
https://www.heraldscotland.com/business_hq/17258518.liz-cameron-making-shopping-more-accessible-at-this-busy-time-of-year-would-be-a-worthwhile-pursuit-for-all-retailers/

  In recent years, Scotland’s important retail sector has taken a hit in footfall and sales. According to the latest figures compiled by the Scottish Retail Consortium (SRC), retail sales in Scotland took a downturn (0.2%) for October resulting in the first year-on-year decline since the spring of this year. The SRC and Springboard monitor also found the vacancy rate for town centres in Scotland was up to 11.1% in October, which was an increase from 10.8% in July and above the average vacancy rate for the whole of the UK at 9.6%.
 
  In the first half of 2018 there were 58 new store openings in Scotland's main cities and towns, but 107 closures. The shop vacancy rate is at its second highest level in the past seven years and tells us that Scotland’s high streets are not in the rudest of health.
 
  How consumers purchase goods and services has dramatically transformed over the past decade and is a key factor in why Scotland’s high streets have taken a hit in recent times. In January 2008, online purchases accounted for 5% of retail sales. Fast-forward ten years to August 2018, that figure is now 18%. Internet retailing is more popular in the UK than in any other EU country. In the run-up to Christmas, consumers in the UK are expected to spend over £2,000 each - three times as much as consumers in France and Germany - and retailers can prime themselves to obtain a large slice of this spend and attract more customers through the doors.
 
  Businesses have already been adapting to changing consumer behaviour and offering a "retail mix," including an engaging store experience, online offerings and speedy delivery options. Another way in which retailers can increase footfall is by broadening their customer base, particularly around consumer inclusivity. Making shopping more accessible at this busy time of year would be a worthwhile pursuit for all retailers. Introducing regular ‘quiet hours’ for those with sensory needs, improving store signage, increasing mobility around stores and using more inclusive marketing and product photography are just some of the ways stores can improve the customer experience. Shopping centres across Scotland have already taken encouraging steps by introducing ‘quiet hours’ on Sundays, an important step to increase footfall and appeal to a wider range of consumers. The Purple Tuesday campaign is an excellent example of how businesses can make immediate changes to meet the needs of consumers. Ultimately, this is good for business and consumers, but also good for our communities.
 
  Liz Cameron is chief executive of Scottish Chambers of Commerce.
**
Scotland arm holds Diageo back on gender-pay progress**
2018-11-27 12:42:02
https://www.heraldscotland.com/business_hq/17257722.scotland-arm-holds-diageo-back-on-gender-pay-progress/

  THE gender pay gap in drinks giant Diageo’s Scottish business widened in the past year despite the business posting an improved figure overall.
 
  Last year the median male worker at the business earned 8.6 per cent more than the median female worker, with the gap falling to 5.4% this year.
 
  In Scotland, where the bulk of the company’s manufacturing is done, the gap rose from 16.7% to 18%, with the business saying a number of factors were to blame.
 
  “This gap grew in 2018, as we saw a reduction in the number of women opting for shift allowances for unsociable hours and the continuation of a long-term trend of manufacturing roles being filled by men,” the company said. “This year, we have recruited more women than men into entry level roles in our Scotland business, 50 per cent of all promotions were women, 66% of graduates hired were women, and we placed female science undergraduates in our innovation lab in Menstrie.
 
  “Our focus for our business in Scotland is to build a strong pipeline of future female leaders across both office and manufacturing roles and we are confident that we have the right plans in place to narrow this pay gap in the future.”
**
Brewgooder drafts in big guns
in bid to drive sales and projects**
2018-11-27 05:28:46
https://www.heraldscotland.com/business_hq/17257720.brewgooder-drafts-in-big-gunsin-bid-to-drive-sales-and-projects/

  BREWGOODER has bolstered its board with two senior hires from the Scottish corporate scene as the social enterprise targets lifting turnover to £2.5 million
 
  by 2021.
 
  The firm, which directs all profits from sales of its craft lager to fund clean water projects in Malawi, has recruited Shane Corstorphine from Skyscanner and Patrick Hartless from William Grant & Sons to provide strategic input as it targets a significant scaling up of its operations.
 
  Mr Corstorphine was chief financial officer at Edinburgh-based Skyscanner during the years of massive expansion which saw it achieve “unicorn” status – the tag given to firms worth $1 billion – and
 
  ultimately sold to China’s C-trip in a
**
Brexit deal loss equal to Welsh GDP**
2018-11-27 05:30:54
https://www.heraldscotland.com/business_hq/17257725.brexit-deal-loss-equal-to-welsh-gdp/

  IAN McCONNELL
 
  UK economic output in the longer term will be around four per cent lower than it would have been had the country stayed in the EU if the Government’s proposed Brexit deal is implemented, a think-tank forecasts.
 
  The National Institute of Economic and Social Research, publishing the report, said this was broadly equivalent to losing the annual output of Wales or the output of the financial services industry in London. It added that it also equated to a loss of 3% in gross domestic product per head, worth around £1,000 per person per annum to people in the UK.
 
  Garry Young, director of macromodelling and forecasting, said: “Leaving the EU will make it more costly for the UK to trade with a large market on our doorstep and inevitably will have economic costs.”
**
Quiz profits rise despite House of Fraser hit and 'challenging' market**
2018-11-27 19:10:04
https://www.heraldscotland.com/business_hq/17259741.quiz-profits-rise-despite-house-of-fraser-hit-and-challenging-market/

  Fashion retailer Quiz has notched up a hike in half-year sales and profits despite "challenging" market conditions and a hit from the administration of House of Fraser.
 
  Quiz said pre-tax profits increased 4% to £3.8 million over the six months to September 30 as group revenue rose 19% to £66.7 million.
 
  It comes despite a £400,000 provision for the House of Fraser administration and £1 million of costs related to the company's AIM listing and restructuring.
 
  Underlying earnings rose 11% to £5.6 million in the first half, but this is still lower than previously expected, as flagged up in a profit warning from the group last month.
 
  Quiz alerted to a profits blow in October due to poor sales from online partners and the House of Fraser impact, which sent shares in the group tumbling 37% on the day.
**
Thomas Cook shares plunge after third profit warning this year**
2018-11-27 19:18:05
https://www.heraldscotland.com/business_hq/17259745.thomas-cook-shares-plunge-after-third-profit-warning-this-year/

  Thomas Cook shed nearly a quarter of its stock market value on Tuesday after its third profit warning of the year caused shares to plunge.
 
  The company said it would take a £30 million hit to profits in an unscheduled announcement due to extra costs and the effect of the heatwave on holiday bookings.
 
  Underlying earnings will be £250 million for the year to September 30, down £58 million on 2017.
 
  This was put down to additional charges including flight disruption, writedowns on money owed by some hotels and transformation costs, as well as delayed demand for its tour holidays amid the heatwave.
 
  Group revenue was up 6% on a like-for-like basis, reaching £9.58 billion.
**
Uber fined £385,000 by UK watchdog**
2018-11-27 10:59:17
https://www.heraldscotland.com/news/17258269.uber-fined-385000-by-uk-watchdog/

  Uber has been fined £385,000 by a UK watchdog for failing to protect customers' personal information during a cyber attack.
 
  A series of "avoidable data security flaws" allowed the personal details of around 2.7 million UK customers to be accessed and downloaded by attackers, the Information Commissioner's Office (ICO) said.
 
  This included full names, email addresses and phone numbers, exposing people to an "increased risk of fraud".
 
  The records of almost 82,000 UK drivers - including details of journeys made and how much they were paid - were also taken during the incident in October and November 2016.
 
  ICO director of investigations Steve Eckersley said: "This was not only a serious failure of data security on Uber's part, but a complete disregard for the customers and drivers whose personal information was stolen.
**
£75m Brexit resilience fund call from business leaders**
2018-11-27 05:00:00
https://www.heraldscotland.com/business_hq/17256934.75m-brexit-resilience-fund-call-from-business-leaders/

Business leaders have called for a £75 million resilience fund to help firms adapt post-Brexit.
 
  The Federation of Small Businesses has urged Finance Secretary Derek Mackay to establish the Brexit fund ahead of the draft Scottish Budget next month.
 
  The FSB is also calling for further reforms of the business rates system and action to boost town centres and high streets.
 
  Andrew McRae, FSB’s Scotland policy chair, said its research shows that only a minority of Scottish businesses have started to prepare for Brexit.
 
Read more: Hoofing ball out of park surely not the way to clear Brexit danger
**
Prime lambs sell to top of £94 per head at Ayr**
2018-11-27 12:13:53
https://www.heraldscotland.com/business_hq/17258520.prime-lambs-sell-to-top-of-94-per-head-at-ayr/

  Messrs Craig Wilson Ltd had 1664 prime lambs forward at Ayr yesterday when nice, leaner ones were dearer on the week, while fatter types met a similar trade. Top prices on the day were £94 per head and 207.9p per kg with the final average levelling at 167.3p (+2.2p on the week).
 
  Cast sheep were also dearer on the week with 331 heavy ewes selling to £124 for a Suffolk and averaging £60.24, while 211 light/export-type ewes peaked at £75 for Cheviots and levelled at £35.61.
 
  Harrison & Hetherington Ltd sold 53 prime heifers in St Boswells yesterday to a top of 261p per kg and an average of 215.5p (-1p), while 28 prime bullocks peaked at 239p and levelled at 209.2p (-2p).
 
  In the rough ring 70 beef cows sold to 177p and averaged 108p (+1p).
 
  There were also 1502 prime lambs that sold to £100 and 230p to average 174p (+4p).
**
Shareholder launches £608m takeover bid for Faroe Petroleum**
2018-11-26 17:35:02
https://www.heraldscotland.com/business_hq/17256246.shareholder-launches-608m-takeover-bid-for-faroe-petroleum/

  Shares in Faroe Petroleum have soared more than 25% after its largest shareholder launched a £608 million takeover bid for the company.
 
  DNO, a Norwegian firm which already owns more than 28% of Faroe, said it was offering a "considerable premium" for investors wishing to exit amid the uncertainty of the oil market.
 
  Faroe responded to the unsolicited offer with a statement urging investors to take no action in relation to their shares.
 
  Some analysts have said the proposal undervalues the company, and urged investors to turn down the "low-ball" offer.
 
  The bid confirmed growing speculation that DNO would make an offer, after the company bought its sizeable stake in Faroe earlier this year.
**
