91 News are collected
US midterm election: What to look out for as results roll in
2018-11-06 18:26:13
https://www.heraldscotland.com/news/17205474.when-will-us-midterm-election-results-come-in-heres-what-to-expect-from-vote/

Donald Trump's presidency has been a turbulent ride for America and the wider world.
 
  Today Americans have a chance to deliver their verdict on Mr Trump's two years in office in the US midterm elections.
 
  At stake is the Republicans' control of US congress - comprising the house of representatives and the upper chamber, the US senate - along with the party's command of governors' offices and statehouses around the country.
 
Read more: Donald Trump and the battle for America's soul: David Pratt on the mother of all Midterm elections
 
  Polls start closing at 6pm EST in Kentucky (11pm GMT), but things will really start rolling at 7pm (midnight GMT), when polls close in Georgia, Indiana, South Carolina and Virginia.

Proposed 'meat tax' health levy would add 79% to cost of bacon
2018-11-06 18:15:20
https://www.heraldscotland.com/news/17205263.charge-shoppers-79-more-for-bacon-say-scientists-behind-life-saving-meat-tax/

  EXPERTS are calling for the introduction of a potentially life-saving ‘meat tax’ saying it could end generations of deaths brought on by heart disease, stroke, diabetes and cancer.
 
  Scientists claim a huge the hike in price – in the same way cigarettes and alcohol have been targeted - would bring a change of culture in the excessive consumption of red and processed meats has been linked to increase killer diseases.
 
  But the move brought a warning that such a strategy could lead massively increased costs for everyday goods which industry insiders could even lead to a black market in cheaper underground bacon and other cheap cuts of meats.
 
  Scientists at Oxford University set out to estimate the level of health tax needed to make up for healthcare costs associated with eating meat in 149 regions worldwide.
 
  They also calculated the likely impact of a meat tax on death rates due to chronic disease.

Campaigners say Scots justice system 'fails' rape victims as they launch bid to scrap corroboration
2018-11-06 17:53:02
https://www.heraldscotland.com/news/17205343.campaigners-say-scots-justice-system-fails-rape-victims-as-they-launch-bid-to-scrap-corroboration/

  Women who believe the Scottish legal system has allowed men accused of raping them to escape justice are calling for the rule of ‘corroboration’ to be scrapped.
 
  Shirley Ross, 40, and Emma Bryson, 46, along with three other women who remain anonymous - are demanding a change, saying the current system has “failed” them.
 
  Each of the five women was denied the chance of having their alleged abuser prosecuted due to the legal requirement for corroboration.
 
Read more: Kenny McAskill: rule of corroboration 'has failed'
 
  It requires two independent pieces of evidence before a case can go to court.

Scottish Government confirms misconduct complaint against Alex Salmond dealt with in 2013
2018-11-06 16:39:49
https://www.heraldscotland.com/news/17204701.scottish-government-confirms-misconduct-complaint-against-alex-salmond-dealt-with-in-2013/

  THE Scottish Government dealt with one of the two sexual misconduct complaints against Alex Salmond in December 2013, Scotland's highest court has heard, despite previous government denials.
 
  The revelation came at a 35-minute procedural hearing for the former First Minister’s legal action against the government at the Court of Session on Tuesday.
 
  Mr Salmond is seeking a judicial review of the way the government handled two allegations of sexual misconduct made against him under a new complaints procedure on 16 and 24 January relating to his time as First Minister in 2013.
 
  The two female civil servants were referred to in court as Complainer A and Complainer B.
 
  Mr Salmond, 63, strongly denies harassment and criminality and says he was denied a fair chance to respond to the allegations.

Neil Mackay: Darkness will descend all over the West if Trump wins tonight
2018-11-06 05:02:16
https://www.heraldscotland.com/news/17203394.neil-mackay-darkness-will-descend-all-over-the-west-if-trump-wins-tonight/

  THE United States goes to the polls today with thoughts of a second American civil war in voters’ minds. These aren’t the paranoid fantasies of liberals driven mad by Donald Trump in the White House, these are the fears of conservative scholars like Victor Davis Hanson of Stanford University’s Hoover Institute – a man who voted twice for George W Bush. Writing in the conservative National Review, Professor Hanson said that the US had”‘arrived at the brink of a veritable civil war”.
 
  “Whether we all take a deep breath, and understand our present dangerous trajectory, will determine whether 2019 becomes 1861,” he wrote. By 1865, after four years of fighting, the civil war had claimed more American lives than any other conflict before or since.
 
  The echoes of the civil war are everywhere. As Mr Trump ordered American troops to the US-Mexico border to deal with a “caravan” of impoverished men, women and children from Honduras, seeking a new life in America, the President turned his ire on the 14th amendment of the constitution which guarantees citizenship to anyone born in the States. Written in the aftermath of the civil war, it was expressly conceived to give equal protection under the law to former slaves.
 
  Mr Trump is putting a crowbar into a fault-line in American life, and wrenching it open – playing to those who see “citizenship” and “white” as the same thing. The dog whistle of the 14th amendment is as alluring to a white supremacist as the word “globalist” is to an anti-Semite.
 
  Civil conflict, though, isn’t the only dread haunting American voters as they cast their ballot in today’s crucial midterm elections – there is talk in the US every week of a slow-moving coup, of the rise of fascism, of a country so sundered it can never be put back together again. Yesterday, the great American novelist Don DeLillo said he doubted his country could recover from the Trump presidency. The truth is: America is already in a state of cold war with itself.

Dundee MSP 'hasn't given up hope' over saving Michelin tyre plant
2018-11-06 13:20:42
https://www.heraldscotland.com/news/17204527.michelin-baldovie-closure-dundee-msp-hasnt-given-up-hope-over-saving-tyre-plant/

  Talks are due to take place to discuss whether there is a "viable option" to secure the future of the Michelin tyre factory in Dundee.
 
  Dundee East MSP Shona Robison said she has not given up hope following the company's decision to close the facility in the next couple of years.
 
  The firm has confirmed plans to shut down the Tayside plant, which has 845 employees, by mid-2020, saying the site has faced "serious difficulties" in recent years.
 
Read more: Michelin's Baldovie factory to close: Rise and fall of Dundee tyre plant
 
  Troubles at the base, which opened in 1971, have been partly blamed on competition from cheaper products from Asia.

Cartoon to teach MSPs about sexual harassment
2018-11-06 05:00:00
https://www.heraldscotland.com/news/17202843.cartoon-to-teach-msps-about-sexual-harassment/

  MSPs are to be shown a cartoon featuring stick figures hugging, leering and vomiting in a toilet as part of a £50,000 programme to teach them about sexual harassment.
 
  The animated film is part of a new “culture of respect” initiative being run at the Scottish Parliament in the wake of a series of misconduct scandals in public life.
 
  Around eight workshops have been completed so far, with around 100 more due by January, taking in all 129 MSPs, and 1000 other staff and contractors at the parliament.
 
  The cartoon has been borrowed from America where it was created as a "public service announcement" for the Time's Up movement, and is voiced by actors Rashida Jones, of Park and Recreation, and Donald Glover, who is in the new Star Wars spin-off Solo.
 
  The Holyrood programme was set up after former SNP childcare minister Mark McDonald was banned for a month after sending a sleazy message to another MSP’s member of staff.

Top chef Andrew Fairlie quits Gleneagles restaurant due to terminal illness
2018-11-06 11:23:37
https://www.heraldscotland.com/news/17204074.top-chef-andrew-fairlie-quits-gleneagles-restaurant-due-to-terminal-illness/

  Renowned chef Andrew Fairlie is stepping down from his two Michelin-starred restaurant at Gleneagles due to a terminal brain tumour.
 
  He has been fighting the illness since 2005 with chemotherapy, radiotherapy and surgery but was told in June no further treatment was available, The Times Scotland reported.
 
  Mr Fairlie is now retiring from the restaurant, which he established in 2001, to arrange a wedding with his partner Kate White and spend time with friends.
 
Read more: Top 12 Scottish restaurants, as chosen by The Herald's Ron Mackenna
 
  He said goodbye to colleagues in the kitchen on Saturday and will officially hand over the keys to the head chef Stevie McLaughlin, general manager Dale Dewsbury and his business partner Gregor Mathieson in February.

Five men arrested over burning effigy of Grenfell Tower
2018-11-06 10:49:41
https://www.heraldscotland.com/news/17203961.grenfell-tower-bonfire-five-men-arrested-over-public-order-offences/

  Five men have been arrested over a video showing a model of Grenfell Tower burning on a bonfire.
 
  The Metropolitan Police said the men, who are all from south and south-east London, handed themselves in on Monday night.
 
  They are a 19-year-old, a 46-year-old and a 49-year-old, all from South Norwood, a 49-year-old from Lambeth and a 55-year-old from Beckenham.
 
  They turned up at a south London police station at 10pm and were arrested on suspicion of a public order offence and taken into custody.
 
Read more: Grenfell Tower soil tests reported to reveal ‘huge concentrations’ of toxins

Police reject watchdog's claims of 'sinister' failure to record crimes
2018-11-06 20:18:37
https://www.heraldscotland.com/news/17205585.police-reject-watchdogs-claims-of-sinister-failure-to-record-crimes/

  POLICE chiefs have strongly rejected a watchdog’s claims that officers made errors in recording crimes because they are incompetent or motivated by something more “sinister”. 
 
  Kate Frame, the Police Investigations and Review Commissioner (Pirc), accused officers of failing to refer criminal allegations within their ranks to prosecutors.
 
  She said a case of unlawful detention was wrongly recorded as a “quality of service complaint”, and suggested police incompetence or something more sinister may have contributed to the mistakes.
 
  She said: “I think there may be a combination of factors that have contributed to it – either by way of incompetence or other more sinister aspects.”
 
  However Ms Frame’s office was later forced to retract claims police had recorded an allegation of rape as merely an “incivility” rather than a serious crime. The force said this was “categorically incorrect”.

Man's body found on footpath near school
2018-11-06 12:27:18
https://www.heraldscotland.com/news/17204311.mans-body-found-on-footpath-near-drumchapel-school/

  A man's body has been found on a footpath near a school.
 
  Police were called to the scene off Kinfauns Drive in Drumchapel, Glasgow, at around 7.45am on Tuesday.
 
  Officers are treating the death as unexplained and cordons have been put up in the area near Drumchapel High School while investigations continue.
 

 
  A post-mortem examination will be carried out to establish the exact cause of death.

Michelin's Baldovie factory to close: Rise and fall of Dundee tyre plant
2018-11-06 12:15:28
https://www.heraldscotland.com/news/17204274.michelins-baldovie-factory-to-close-rise-and-fall-of-dundee-tyre-plant/

  Yesterday French tyre manufacturer confirmed plans to close its Dundee plant by mid-2020. 
 
  Workers and union leaders are "devastated" by the surprise development at Michelin Dundee, which currently employs around 850 people.
 
  The news came a matter of weeks after the French manufacturing giant warned about the threat of cheap imports could affect jobs.
 
Read more: Scots jobs hammerblow as French tyre firm confirms it is shutting its Dundee plant
 
  Union bosses said the closure will represent a "hammer-blow" for Dundee and the manufacturing industry in Scotland.

Northern Irish schoolgirl ‘taken from classroom to be questioned by police over abortion pills’
2018-11-06 12:51:11
https://www.heraldscotland.com/news/17204373.northern-irish-schoolgirl-taken-from-classroom-to-be-questioned-by-police-over-abortion-pills/

  A Northern Ireland schoolgirl whose mother is facing prosecution for buying her abortion pills was taken from a classroom by police officers and spoken to about the alleged crime without her parents being present, a court has heard.
 
  A barrister for the mother outlined the circumstances of the case as she urged judges to rule that her looming prosecution is in contravention of human rights laws.
 
  The woman is taking a judicial review in Belfast High Court against the decision to charge her for procuring online abortion medication for her pregnant 15-year-old child.
 
Read more: Calls for 'travel bursary' for Northern Irish women seeking abortions in Scotland
 
  The case, known as JR76, represents the latest challenge to Northern Ireland's restrictive laws on terminations.

MacGregor’s Bar scoops Highlands and Islands tourism award
2018-11-06 15:48:48
https://www.heraldscotland.com/news/17204977.macgregors-bar-scoops-highlands-and-islands-tourism-award/

  A pub set up through crowdfunding by a star of folk supergroup Blazin’ Fiddles has been named best bar in a tourism Oscars after only a year of operation.
 
  Bruce MacGregor, who founded MacGregor’s Bar, in Inverness, clinched the title for Best Bar/Pub in the Highlands and Islands Tourism Awards.
 
  An accomplished traditional fiddler, who also presents BBC Radio Scotland’s Travelling Folk programme, MacGregor can often be found performing a set of reels in the bar’s Sunday afternoon sessions. 
 
Read more: Andy Gemmell's Drinks Cabinet: The Crafty Distillery, Newton Stewart
 
  Based on the concept of a Scottish blackhouse with Scandinavian and French influences, one of its key aims to make women feel comfortable when they came into the bar on their own.

Remove Mackintosh Building from control of GSA board, MSPs told by art school academic
2018-11-06 15:26:37
https://www.heraldscotland.com/news/17204772.remove-mackintosh-building-from-control-of-gsa-board-msps-told-by-art-school-academic/

  THE Mackintosh Building at the Glasgow School of Art should be taken out of the hands of its board, a member of its staff has told MSPs.
 
  Gordon Gibb, an architect and academic, has told members of the Scottish Parliament's culture committee, that it "needs to be taken out from under the mantle of the current priorities of the directorate and the board, which to the staff appear to be physical expansion of the campus, the reduction in resource cost and attraction of international fees.
 
  "I would not disagree with those who say that it should not be redeveloped or run by those individuals in charge during the two fires."
 
  He has also questioned why Kier, the construction company who were renovating the Mackintosh Building, had an office on the site.
 
  He said: "If a stronger priority had been in the protection of our heritage and what we are, simple measures would have been taken by those responsible to protect this vulnerable building in the most dangerous part of its life."

Holyrood study confirms looming 'tax gap' with England
2018-11-06 19:24:55
https://www.heraldscotland.com/news/17204938.holyrood-study-confirms-looming-tax-gap-with-england/

  MIDDLE class Scots could pay £1300 more income tax next year than their counterparts in England, according to new research by the Scottish Parliament.
 
  The analysis found everyone earning more than £26,250 is likely to be worse off north of the border, even if the thresholds for all Scottish income tax bands rise by inflation in 2019/20.
 
  The work was prompted by Chancellor Philip Hammond increasing the threshold for the upper 40p rate of income to £50,000 next year in England.
 
  At present, the threshold in Scotland is £43,430 and the rate in 41p.
 
  Mr Hammond’s decision has widened the cross-border tax gap affecting the better off, and led to Scottish Tory calls for SNP Finance Secretary Derek Mackay to follow suit.

Theatre: Young Ones' Ade Edmondson and Nigel Planer back as off-kilter odd couple
2018-11-06 10:32:37
https://www.heraldscotland.com/news/17203920.theatre-vulcan-7-kings-edinburgh-three-stars/

  Theatre
 
  Vulcan 7
 
  King’s Theatre, Edinburgh
 
  Neil Cooper, Three stars
 
  An actor’s life can go in many ways. Adrian Edmondson and Nigel Planer’s co-written vehicle for themselves makes this abundantly clear in their portrayal of a couple of old luvs who left Rada at the same time and end up reluctantly reunited in Iceland on the set of the latest instalment of the hokey sci-fi franchise that gives the play its title.

May's thwarted plan for Brexit deal leaked
2018-11-06 19:25:34
https://www.heraldscotland.com/news/17205538.mays-thwarted-plan-for-brexit-deal-leaked/

  THERESA May’s negotiating hand with Brussels has been weakened after a leak revealed her government’s desperation to strike a Brexit deal by the end of the month.
 
  A leaked day-by-day planning grid showed the Prime Minister had hoped to get cabinet agreement on Tuesday, with a vote in the House of Commons on November 27.
 
  The unofficial plan, which was obtained by the BBC, said the government’s narrative would be of “measured success” rather than “champagne corks popping”.
 
  Mrs May was to have told the CBI: “We have delivered on the referendum”, with other ministers making speeches, Commons statements and TV appearances to sell the deal.
 
  However the timetable was frustrated by continued wrangling over an Irish backstop to stop the return of a hard border in the event of a No Deal.

Salmond sexual misconduct case in court today
2018-11-06 14:21:39
https://www.heraldscotland.com/news/17201971.salmond-sexual-misconduct-case-in-court-today/

  ALEX Salmond’s legal action against the Scottish Government over the handling of alleged sexual misconduct complaints enters open court today.
 
  Lawyers for the two sides are due to appear before Lord Pentland at the Court of Session for a procedural hearing.
 
  The hearing is to see if the parties are ready to proceed to a full judicial review hearing, which has provisionally been set down to start on January 15 and last four days.
 
  Mr Salmond, 63, strongly denies sexual harassment and criminality.
 
  The former First Minister launched the legal action last August against the government and its most senior civil servant, the permanent secretary Leslie Evans.

School music crisis as hundreds of tutors axed
2018-11-06 13:04:40
https://www.heraldscotland.com/news/17203149.school-music-crisis-as-hundreds-of-tutors-axed/

  THE number of music instructors working in Scottish schools has plummeted to an all time low.
 
  There are now just 667 dedicated music tutors serving primary and secondary schools compared to 1,043 in 2007.
 
  The decline, combined with a move by some councils to increase charges, has sparked fears school music is facing “extinction”.
 
  Eleven local authorities increased their music tuition rates last year with average annual fees for group lessons around £212 per pupil. Some councils charge as much as £524.
 
  Scottish violinist Nicola Benedetti hit out over the rises in May, signing a joint letter with other musicians calling for all UK primary pupil to be taught an instrument at no cost.

SPONSORED CONTENT: Cosy pubs around Scotland
2018-11-06 12:36:53
https://www.heraldscotland.com/news/17192066.sponsored-content-cosy-pubs-around-scotland/

  As autumn sweeps through the country showcasing an enticing rustic palette of colour, a retreat from the brisk outdoors can be a welcome reprieve. Luckily, Scotland is awash with lots of cosy pubs ideal for relaxing in. Thaw the chill from your hands and toes in these quaint pubs perfect for feeling snug this season with a hot or cold beverage, plenty of comfort food and a pleasant setting…
 
Partick Duck Club
 
  With over 17 years’ experience in some of Scotland’s most distinguished establishments, such as One Devonshire Gardens, Cameron Hotel in Loch Lomond and Brian Maule at Le Chardon, the owners of Partick Duck Club, Ross and Greig, certainly know great food.
 
  Now they have channeled their expertise into creating the ultimate comfort food in the heart of Partick. With a relaxed and comfortable environment, Partick Duck Club extends a warm welcome to all. 
 


'Thousands of jobs will go' if new campaign succeeds in getting a grouse shooting ban in Scotland
2018-11-05 22:00:00
https://www.heraldscotland.com/news/17202574.thousands-of-jobs-will-go-if-new-campaign-succeeds-in-getting-a-grouse-shooting-ban-in-scotland/

  THOUSANDS of Scotland's rural workers will be put on the dole if a new campaign succeeds in getting a grouse shooting ban, gamekeepers have warned.
 
  The caution has come as the Revive coalition, an alliance of campaigners, scientists and policy advocates from the fields of social justice, conservation, animal welfare and environmental protection, today prepare to come together to present the case for the reform of Scottish grouse moors - which make up almost a fifth of Scotland's land mass.
 
  The group say it is the first time organisations have come together in this way driven by the "shared goal of taking back ownership of Scotland’s uplands and making the vision of reform a reality".
 
  Chris Packham the broadcaster and naturalist is due to speak at tomorrow evening's launch at The Royal Society Of Edinburgh headquarters in Scotland's capital.
 


The Law Awards of Scotland 2018 shortlist revealed
2018-11-06 11:11:26
https://www.heraldscotland.com/news/17204037.the-law-awards-of-scotland-2018-shortlist-revealed/

  The wait is no more as The Law Awards of Scotland 2018 in association with HRC Recruitment finalists have been announced. 
 
  Since 2004, these awards have been rewarding Scotland’s leading legal figures and firms.  The event highlights the often-heroic efforts made by legal firms to ensure clients accessing the Scottish judicial system receive the highest standards of advice and service. 
 
  The Herald is delighted to be working with HRC Recruitment, Stirling Park, The Law Society of Scotland and McKinstry Practice Management to continue to celebrate the tremendous talent in Scotland by hosting these annual awards on Thursday, November 29, 2018.
 
  Hilary Roberts, CEO of HRC Recruitment, said: “Congratulations to all shortlisted firms in the Law Awards of Scotland. As a professional services recruitment firm, we are so impressed with the level of commitment the firms have shown to personnel development, cementing their place in the awards final.”
 
  This year we saw a record number of entries and the judges were overwhelmed with the global reach and calibre of the entrants. The Herald is committed to supporting these important industry awards and we invite you to attend to celebrate and network with Scotland’s leading law firms.

Margaret Taylor: A Tory MP making a stand for the poor? Don’t bet on it
2018-11-06 07:13:02
https://www.heraldscotland.com/news/17203423.margaret-taylor-a-tory-mp-making-a-stand-for-the-poor-dont-bet-on-it/

  WHETHER it’s a Scottish politician praising legislation designed to curtail the reproductive rights of the poor or a Westminster front bench giving vociferous support to what are seen as poverty-inducing benefit reforms, the Tories are doing a great job of living up to their image as a nasty party whose sympathies lie only with the privileged few.
 
  Thank goodness for Tracey Crouch, then, the Conservative MP for Chatham and Aylesford who resigned as sports minister last week in protest at what she said was an “unjustifiable” delay to a policy aimed at tackling the scourge of problem gambling. Having long campaigned for the maximum bet that can be placed via bookie-shop slot machines to be reduced from £100 to £2, Ms Crouch said she was taking a stand after Chancellor Philip Hammond announced that the change will be introduced in October next year and not April as she had been expecting.
 
  The effects of this, she said, will be profound, with £1.6 billion expected to be lost on these machines between May 2018, when the reduction was agreed, and October 2019, when it will now take effect. Worse still, she wrote in her resignation letter, “a significant amount” of the total will be lost “in our most deprived areas”.
 
  It is no secret that gambling and hardship go hand in hand, with the Scottish Government as long ago as 2006 issuing a report that found that “disadvantaged social groups who experience poverty, unemployment, dependence on welfare, and low levels of education and household income are most likely to suffer the adverse consequences of increased gambling”. The clustering of betting shops in areas of deprivation such as Glasgow’s Dumbarton Road has long been a cause for concern and that report, which was written by University of Glasgow professor Gerda Reith, whose research focuses on problematic forms of consumption, also found that “availability and convenience are strongly associated with problem gambling”.
 
  Having been introduced after then Chancellor Gordon Brown abolished betting duties in 2001, the so-called fixed-odds betting terminals (FOBTs) Ms Crouch has resigned over were still in their infancy when Professor Reith’s report was issued. In the years since, though, they have come to represent all that is wrong with the gambling industry, not least because they enable customers to place £100 bets every 20 seconds, leading some to lose thousands in a single sitting.

Key infrastructure projects face cumulative delays of more than a decade
2018-11-06 10:42:50
https://www.heraldscotland.com/news/17202908.key-infrastructure-projects-face-cumulative-delays-of-more-than-a-decade/

  CRUCIAL projects worth billions of pounds to Scotland’s economy face cumulative delays of more than a decade, it has been revealed.
 
  Official documents show hospitals, roads and even a new prison have suffered ongoing setbacks and ballooning costs.
 
  Troubled efforts to slash train journey times between Edinburgh and Glasgow have been held up by two years.
 
  Meanwhile, Transport Secretary Michael Matheson recently confirmed there is no “definitive date” for the opening for the new £745 million Aberdeen bypass.
 
  Figures highlighted by the Scottish Tories show 12 key projects are now facing cumulative delays of more than ten years in total, with critics accusing the SNP of a “record of incompetence”.

UK economy grinds towards halt as Brexit fears take growing toll
2018-11-06 10:09:34
https://www.heraldscotland.com/business_hq/17203494.uk-economy-grinds-towards-halt-as-brexit-fears-take-growing-toll/

  BREXIT’S dampening effect on the UK economy was highlighted again yesterday when a survey revealed growth of the key services sector had slowed to its weakest pace since March.
 
  The services survey from the Chartered Institute of Procurement & Supply, and CIPS’s latest manufacturing and construction sector reports together point to a quarterly UK growth rate of only 0.2 per cent.
 
  And they signal overall optimism in the UK private sector economy is the weakest since the immediate aftermath of the Brexit vote. Excluding July 2016, optimism is at its lowest for six years.
 
Read More: Analysis: This grim picture should make UK Government sit up and take note (but it probably won't)
 
  Optimism among services companies, about the prospects for increased activity on a 12-month time horizon, deteriorated last month to its weakest since July 2016.

WATCH Video: 'Scots' saved by Thai fishermen after yacht is hit by lightning
2018-11-05 19:01:56
https://www.heraldscotland.com/news/17202043.watch-video-scots-saved-by-thai-fishermen-after-yacht-is-hit-by-lightning/

  NINE British tourists, believed to be Scots, were saved by Thai fishermen from a burning yacht after it was struck by lightning during a tropical storm.
 
  The group were on board a 50ft (15m) chartered vessel near the coast of Phuket in Thailand when they were caught in storms on Saturday afternoon.
 
  Police said the passengers who were taking a trip to a ravine sheltered below deck as the sea rocked the vessel and thunder sounded overhead.
 
  The Beneteau-manufactured yacht Emmjay was engulfed in flames as a passing fishing boat helped the stricken crew and holidaymakers - four married couples and one other British woman. No-one was injured.
 


Medics 'unsure' about recommending vaping to cancer patients who smoke
2018-11-06 06:24:49
https://www.heraldscotland.com/news/17202810.e-cig-confusion-as-medics-unsure-over-recommending-vaping-to-cancer-patients-who-smoke/

  NEARLY one in three health professionals would not recommend e-cigarettes to cancer patients who already smoke, despite official guidelines that they are much less harmful than tobacco.
 
  Research which will be presented in Glasgow today found that many doctors and nurses were reluctant to urge their patients to switch to the electronic 'vaping' devices as a way of stopping smoking or reducing their exposure to toxic chemicals.
 
Read more: E-cigarette use by teenagers 'does not lead to smoking'
 
  Health bodies, including NHS Health Scotland and the Royal College of Physicians, have backed the use of e-cigarettes as a less harmful alternative to traditional cigarettes
 
  However, a survey of 506 health professionals across the UK found that 29% would not endorse e-cigarettes to cancer patients who smoke. The poll included 103 GPs, 102 oncologists, 100 cancer surgeons, 103 practice nurses and 99 cancer nurse specialists.

Highland bullying whistleblowers welcome 'useful' public inquiry talks with NHS chief
2018-11-05 18:19:40
https://www.heraldscotland.com/news/17202761.highland-bullying-whistleblowers-welcome-useful-public-inquiry-talks-with-nhs-chief/

  WHISTLEBLOWERS behind the NHS Highland ‘bullying culture’ crisis have welcomed “constructive discussions” with Scotland’s health chiefs as they continue to push for a public inquiry.
 
  Members of the GMB trade union and doctors from NHS Highland met yesterday with the chief executive of NHS Scotland, Paul Gray, for the first time since the row over a so-called “culture of fear and intimidation” erupted in September.
 
Read more: NHS Highland patient 'left on drug too long' amid 'bullying and target-driven' culture
 
  The meeting was arranged after Health Secretary Jeane Freeman intervened to insist that the allegations must be subject to an independent, external investigation.
 
  Campaigners want a QC-led public inquiry, entirely separate from NHS Highland and the wider NHS.

Marianne Taylor: Call me a killjoy but it’s time to ban the sale of fireworks
2018-11-05 18:28:08
https://www.heraldscotland.com/news/17200379.marianne-taylor-call-me-a-killjoy-but-its-time-to-ban-the-sale-of-fireworks/

  LIKE thousands of others, I’ll be heading down to the city’s organised fireworks display at Glasgow Green tonight and will no doubt enjoy the colour that light up the sky, the sights, sounds and smells of Guy Fawkes night.
 
  Guy Fawkes “night” is what this ritual is supposed to be, a one-off chance for people to come together and make some noise in an organised, safe manner.
 
  The reality for many is far less harmless, however, as fireworks and bangers in reckless young hands from Halloween till Christmas continues to create havoc, misery and danger.
 
  Call me a killjoy if you must, but it’s time to stop enabling this bad behaviour once and for all by banning the general sale of fireworks. Indeed, I find it impossible to fathom why these dangerous weapons weren’t withdrawn from sale years ago.
 
  It has been long known and accepted that teenagers and fireworks simply don’t mix, yet we are still failing to ensure they don’t come into contact with one another.

Cumming soon: Scottish BAFTA winner to play King James VI and I in Doctor Who
2018-11-06 07:21:56
https://www.heraldscotland.com/news/17202282.cumming-soon-scottish-bafta-winner-to-play-king-james-vi-and-i-in-doctor-who/

  THE NEW series of Doctor Who is due to have a new royal, Scottish, and historical, angle.
 
  The Thirteenth Doctor is due to pitch her wits against James the VI and I in a new episode of the current series.
 
  The Scottish actor Alan Cumming, who received a special BAFTA Scotland award this weekend, revealed he is playing the role of King James as part of the new incarnation of the time travel drama series.
 
  King James, son of Mary, Queen of Scots, was the 16th century monarch who ruled both England and Scotland from 1603 until his death in 1625.
 
  Cumming, who has made his support for Scottish independence well known, said he had based his performance on two Conservative politicians who he personally dislikes: Sir Malcolm Rifkind, the former secretary of state for Scotland and Foreign Secretary, and Michael Forsyth, Baron Forsyth of Drumlean, who was also Secretary of State for Scotland in the 1990s.

Arthritis - Scotland's hidden misery where half of sufferers feel isolated and even worry about intimacy
2018-11-05 17:16:12
https://www.heraldscotland.com/news/17201332.arthritis-scotlands-hidden-misery-where-half-of-sufferers-feel-isolated-and-even-worry-about-intimacy/

  ARTHRITIS has become Scotland's hidden misunderstood heartache creating an "epidemic of isolation" with nearly half of sufferers saying they avoid going out on their own, a new report says.
 
  The Defying Arthritis at Every Age study which lays bare for the first time the personal impact of the condition on all parts of Scottish life reveals that one in two sufferers even admit to worrying about being physically intimate while 42% say their friendships or relationships are left strained because of it.  
 
  Half of sufferers are unable to even ask for help and say they feel lonely on a regular basis. That feeling of isolation rises to three in four among 16-34 year olds.
 
  The research commissioned by the Versus Arthritis charity say nearly half of people with Scotland had to give up work because of their condition and 53% have had to reduce their working hours. And over a third (35%) have had to reconsider the career they wanted to pursue.
 
  The charity found that the condition severely impacts people’s independence, family and social lives, and ability to move without pain – contributing to an average five-year reduction in quality of life.

Jack Lowden on a Scottish film studio: It is getting embarrassing that Scotland does not have one
2018-11-06 07:24:37
https://www.heraldscotland.com/news/17202375.jack-lowden-on-a-scottish-film-studio-it-is-getting-embarrassing-that-scotland-does-not-have-one/

  THE leading Scottish actor Jack Lowden has said it is "embarrassing" that Scotland has yet to build a major film and TV studio.
 
  Wardpark Studios in Cumbernauld, used to film the Outlander series, is as yet the only purpose-built facility in the country.
 
  Lowden, who won a BAFTA Scotland award this weekend for his role in the Scottish-filmed thriller Calibre, said it was high time Scotland built a studio, and that the country had fallen behind the rest of the UK.
 
  He echoed similar sentiments expressed at the awards by other actors and members of the screen world.
 
READ MORE: New Scottish film studio plan to go out to tender

How a young Scots soldier's Army career was left in tatters by arthritis
2018-11-05 12:42:55
https://www.heraldscotland.com/news/17201910.how-a-young-scots-soldiers-army-career-was-left-in-tatters-by-arthritis/

  William Hall was an 18-year-old soldier on his first operational deployment serving in Afghanistan when an illness turned his whole life upside down.
 
  The mysterious norovirus five year ago left him with swelling joints and after being sent back to a military hospital int he UK he was given the diagnosis of a reactive arthritis.
 
  Now 24 and living in Airdrie with his partner who has also been his care Rebecca Rodger, and a career in the Forces in ruins, he thought he would be confined to a wheelchair for the rest of his life.
 
  "I had reactive arthritis and it just dictated my life," said the former 71 Engineer Regiment soldier. "There is no warning of when it will flare up and I could not believe the extent of the delibilitating effects.
 
  "The swelling was all over my body and I had to use a wheelchair. I was one of the fittest soldiers around in the Army and was left like that.

Celtic Boys Club founder Jim Torbett jailed for six years for abusing boys
2018-11-05 21:52:43
https://www.heraldscotland.com/news/17202458.celtic-boys-club-founder-jim-torbett-jailed-for-six-years-for-abusing-boys/

Celtic Boys Club founder Jim Torbett has been jailed for six years after being convicted of sexually abusing three boys over an eight-year period.
 
  Torbett, 71, was found guilty after a trial at the High Court in Glasgow and denied the charges.
 
  His victims included youth players Kenny Campbell and Andrew Gray, who had waived their right to anonymity.
 
  Celtic Boys' Club was founded by Jim Torbett in 1966 with the permission of the then Celtic FC manager, the late Jock Stein and former chairman Sir Robert Kelly.
 
  It was created as a separate entity from the football club, but it has been closely linked throughout its history and acted as a feeder club, producing a string of Celtic players including Roy Aitken, Paul McStay and Tommy Burns.

Spice Girls to play Scotland in reunion tour without Victoria Beckham
2018-11-05 15:42:19
https://www.heraldscotland.com/news/17202361.spice-girls-to-play-edinburgh-in-reunion-tour-without-victoria-beckham/

  The Spice Girls have announced their first tour for a decade, with Edinburgh one of six UK shows in June next year.
 
  Melanie Brown, Emma Bunton, Geri Horner and Melanie Chisholm revealed details of the reunion tour in a video in the style of a news bulletin on Monday.
 
  Victoria Beckham, however, is not expected to take part.
 
  The girl group will kick off their tour at Manchester's Etihad Stadium on 1 June 2019, and will play Scotland seven days later at the BT Murrayfield Stadium in Edinburgh.
 
  Tickets for all dates are going on sale on Saturday at 10.30am. They will be supported by Jess Glynne.

Scotland four hen harriers 'missing over grouse moors in Scotland'
2018-11-06 05:16:04
https://www.heraldscotland.com/news/17203482.scotland-four-hen-harriers-missing-over-grouse-moors-in-scotland/

  A conservation charity has expressed concern over the disappearance of four tagged hen harriers in recent months.
 
  RSPB Scotland said the birds were last located over land managed for grouse shooting when their satellite tags suddenly stopped transmitting.
 
  A chick from a nest in Northumberland whose last known position was on a grouse moor near Grantown-on-Spey in Inverness-shire has not been seen since August 16.
 
  Two birds tagged on the Mar Lodge Estate in Aberdeenshire this summer were last located near the Aberdeenshire/Moray border on August 29 and near Ballater on September 3 respectively.
 
  The fourth missing bird was last recorded on a grouse moor north of Glenalmond in Perthshire on September 24.

Two of Scotland's biggest firms join forces to try and get motorists to go electric
2018-11-05 18:30:45
https://www.heraldscotland.com/news/17201351.scottishpower-and-arnold-clark-join-forces-to-try-and-get-motorists-to-go-electric/

  TWO of Scotland's biggest companies are are joining forces in a unique 'go green' move to create the electric car-buying equivalent of the package holiday -  as moves are made to ban older petrol and diesel cars around Scotland.
 
Glasgow-based energy firm ScottishPowerand Scotland's biggest car dealer Arnold Clark have come together in a bid to make buying electric cars easier - providing the car, the home charger and the green energy tariff in a oner.
 
  The UK first comes as Glasgow is set to become the first city in Scotland to introduce a Low Emission Zone (LEZ) from the beginning of next year to help combat climate change.
 
  In Glasgow older cars will be banned from the city centre in four years time after councillors agreed in June to extend the LEZ to all vehicles.
 


Hunter who posed with dead goats on Scottish island remains unrepentant
2018-11-06 04:59:02
https://www.heraldscotland.com/news/17203382.hunter-who-posed-with-dead-goats-on-scottish-island-remains-unrepentant/

  AN AMERICAN hunter who caused outrage after posting photos of goats and sheep she killed on a Scottish island has said she will never apologise for her actions and called for an end to death threats against her.
 
  Television presenter Larysa Switlyk, 33, received global criticism after she and a companion were pictured smiling with the animal which they shot on the Isle of Islay.
 
  She proudly described how she had spent two days hunting goat on the island before fatally wounding one with a '200 yard shot' using a long-range rifle.
 
  The pictures caused fury with a politicians, celebrities, island residents and outraged members of the public calling for an end to the practice.
 
  Following the furore, Switlyk said she was "headed out on a bush plane for my next hunting adventure" and would be out of service for a fortnight.

Parents fight to end 'crude' postcode lottery over nursery funding
2018-11-05 11:27:54
https://www.heraldscotland.com/news/17201491.parents-fight-to-end-discrimination-over-nursery-funding/

  A SCOTLAND-WIDE campaign launching this week aims to end a "crude and obstructive" postcode lottery of funding for parents who want to defer their child’s entry to school.
 
  The Give Them Time campaign, backed by leading children’s charities and parent groups, seeks to ensure all families who want to delay the start of formal schooling get funding for an extra year of nursery.
 
  The current age for starting school in Scotland is four or five – but any child who is still four on the day school starts has a legal right to defer.
 
  However, only children born in January and February have a guarantee of an additional year of pre-school funding.
 
  That means thousands of children born between mid-August and February have to apply for discretionary funding to pay the cost of nursery fees for an extra year.

MSPs raise concerns over police data grabbers
2018-11-06 05:00:00
https://www.heraldscotland.com/news/17202781.msps-raise-concerns-over-police-data-grabbers/

  MSPs have raised the alarm over Police Scotland using new machines to grab data from mobile phones and computers while their legality is still in doubt.
 
  The force is pushing ahead with so-called cyber kiosks despite a previous promise to parliament that they would not be used without a solid legal foundation.
 
Holyrood’s policing committee said the public would be “rightly concerned” by the move.
 
  It plans to take urgent evidence on the matter next week.
 
  The Herald revealed in April that Police Scotland had spent £370,000 on 41 cyber kiosks.

Britain cannot have unilateral power to end Brexit backstop, Ireland warns May
2018-11-05 21:09:11
https://www.heraldscotland.com/news/17203098.heading-here/

  Irish premier Leo Varadkar has told Theresa May that he will not accept a Brexit deal which gives the UK the unilateral power to halt "backstop" arrangements for the border with Northern Ireland.
 
  In a phone conversation with the Taoiseach, Mrs May said that any agreement would have to include a mechanism to bring an end to the backstop - designed to ensure there is no hard border in Ireland if the UK and EU fail to reach a broader trade deal.
 
  Mr Varadkar's spokesman said the Irish premier indicated he was ready to consider proposals for a review mechanism, but only if it was clear that the arrangement cannot be ditched by one side acting alone.
 
  The backstop has become the major obstacle to agreement on the UK's withdrawal from the European Union, due to take place in March next year.
 
Downing Street proposals for a review mechanism are understood to be designed to allay Conservative concerns over the Prime Minister's plan for the whole of the UK to remain temporarily in a customs union with the EU after Brexit.

Matt Phillips and Steven Fletcher called up to Scotland squad to face Albania and Israel
2018-11-06 14:54:33
https://www.heraldscotland.com/sport/17204788.matt-phillips-and-steven-fletcher-called-up-to-scotland-squad-to-face-albania-and-israel/

Scotland manager Alex McLeish has called up Steven Fletcher and Matt Phillips to compensate for an injury-ridden strike force ahead of the coming tests against Israel and Albania.
 
  McLeish has had to contend with injuries to Celtic striker Leigh Griffiths and Hearts talisman Steven Naismith. As well as central defender John Souttar.
 
  Fletcher hasn’t played for Scotland in over 13 months and despite a respectable record for the national team, the 31-year-old has only scored three goals in 16 games for Sheffield Wednesday. Meanwhile, Phillips has bagged four from the right wing of West Brom’s attack in the English championship this season.
 
  Elsewhere, the Scotland manager has stuck by the young and relatively inexperienced duo of Celtic midfielder Ryan Christie and Aberdeen central defender Michael Devlin. Who were both called up mid way through Scotland’s last run of fixtures.
 
  The national team will travel to Albania to face Christian Panucci’s squad on November 17 and then welcome Israel to Hampden on November 20, with the aim of finishing top of their Nations League group.

St Mirren chief executive Tony Fitzpatrick says coin-throwing is societal problem
2018-11-06 10:11:14
https://www.heraldscotland.com/sport/17203870.st-mirren-chief-executive-tony-fitzpatrick-says-coin-throwing-is-societal-problem/

  ST MIRREN chief executive Tony Fitzpatrick has condemned the recent spate of missile throwing at Scottish football matches but insists it’s a societal rather than a football problem.
 
  Fitzpatrick revealed the Paisley club are working in connection with the police to identify the supporter who threw a coin at Rangers’ striker Alfredo Morelos during Saturday’s match, and are investigating claims that St Mirren players Craig Samson and Danny Mullen were also struck with objects from the crowd.
 
  On the back of similar recent episodes at grounds throughout the country, Fitzpatrick echoed Rangers manager Steven Gerrard’s call for anyone caught to be given a life ban from attending matches.
 
  But he has also felt the blame for anti-social behaviour at matches couldn’t be entirely left at football’s door.
 
  As he launched his autobiography, Fitzpatrick said: “It's unacceptable and something has to be done. But what can we do? On Saturday we had over 6000 people here and one or two do something. How is that our responsibility?

SPFL chief Neil Doncaster avoids questions on strict liability
2018-11-05 22:30:00
https://www.heraldscotland.com/sport/17202866.spfl-chief-neil-doncaster-avoids-questions-on-strict-liability/

  NEIL Doncaster, chief executive of the Scottish Professional Football League, yesterday dodged questions about the possibility of introducing strict liability to Scottish football in the wake of a spate of coin-throwing incidents and disorder at grounds.
 
  Hibernian manager Neil Lennon was struck by a coin at Tynecastle last Wednesday night in a match that also saw Hearts goalkeeper Zdenek Zlamal punched by a Hibs supporter, before Rangers striker Alfredo Morelos was also struck as he celebrated his late goal against St Mirren on Saturday.
 
  That has led to calls for a review of the SPFL rulebook, with James Dornan MSP among those to add their voice to a push for greater accountability and punishments for such transgressions being placed onto clubs.
 
  But despite the current frequency of such incidents, Doncaster, speaking at an event held by main Premiership sponsors Ladbrokes to promote responsible gambling, refused to address the issue.
 
  “There is a time and a place for a proper discussion on this sort of issue, but I’m extremely conscious that I don’t want to overshadow this very important issue,” Doncaster said.

Nick Rodger: Keeping a bleary eye on golf's debates and discussions ...
2018-11-06 08:36:58
https://www.heraldscotland.com/sport/17203691.nick-rodger-keeping-a-bleary-eye-on-golfs-debates-and-discussions/

  Forgive me if this opening paragraph is interrupted by a gaping yawn – sorry, I’ve just yawned – but a 3.30am flight back from the Turkish Airlines Open makes the act of winkling out a column such a creaking, cumbersome process, it’s akin to heaving each individual letter off the keyboard like it’s a clump of granite and dumping it on to the page.
 
  So, before we keel over under this wearisome, bleary-eyed burden, let’s have a quick look at some of the topics that have emerged in recent days . . .
 
To go or not to go? That is the Saudi question
 
  The Middle East continues to be financially fertile ground for the European Tour. In 2019, there will be six visits to the region. Of course, the addition of Saudi Arabia to the stop-offs has brought renewed scrutiny after the killing of journalist Jamal Khashoggi focused attention on the country’s regime.
 
  In a sit-down with the golf writers in Turkey, Keith Pelley, the tour’s chief executive, gave little away other than repeating the phrase,

Niall Keown says Partick Thistle have to toughen up mentally after Morton horror show
2018-11-06 07:49:50
https://www.heraldscotland.com/sport/17203172.niall-keown-says-partick-thistle-have-to-toughen-up-mentally-after-morton-horror-show/

  NIALL Keown says that the Partick Thistle players need to toughen up mentally and use the thumping at the hands of Morton as a wake-up call to save their season.
 
  The defender was helpless to prevent the mauling at Cappielow, with the home side running riot to score five times against a sorry Jags outfit.
 
  Keown admits that the way his side folded is a concern, but he is certain that new manager Gary Caldwell can get a reaction from his squad in time to salvage their Championship campaign.
 
  "The performance on Saturday was in no way acceptable," Keown said.
 
  "The goals we lost were awful, and it does suggest that there may have been a weak mentality in the side to go under like that in the face of adversity.

Echoes of Rangers' past in the present says former winger Dale Gordon
2018-11-06 17:03:16
https://www.heraldscotland.com/sport/17205254.steven-gerrard-making-right-moves-at-rangers-says-dale-gordon/

  IF ever there was a moment of doubt, Dale Gordon needed only to glance at the men standing alongside him for his resolve to be fortified.
 
  The names Andy Goram, Richard Gough, Stuart McCall and Mark Hateley trip off the tongues of Rangers supporters with relish, and a sense of longing. They weren’t just team-mates in Walter Smith’s side; they weren’t just good footballer; to Gordon they were men to be relied upon.
 
  “In that time under Walter Smith you had a team that was full of confidence, full of . . . I wouldn’t say egos . . . but a group of players that were winners,” says Gordon. “The desire was incredible.”
 
  Under Smith, Rangers had “an array of talent” and the memories of being part of the 1992/93 side that came so close to Champions League glory will always be a source of immense pride for Gordon. In particular, ‘the Battle of Britain’ when Rangers showed colossal strength to defeat Leeds United 4-2 on aggregate to qualify for the group stage.
 
  “We were unbelievable that night,” he says. “The work we put in and the determination to succeed – we had an exceptional team.”

Is Celtic midfielder Ryan Christie the new Stuart Armstrong?
2018-11-06 02:10:00
https://www.heraldscotland.com/sport/17203021.is-celtic-midfielder-ryan-christie-the-new-stuart-armstrong/

Celtic fans will be purring with delight after Saturday’s comprehensive demolition of Hearts saw the club fire home 13 goals in their last three domestic games. Brendan Rodgers’ side look back to their absolute best and there’s seemingly very little any other team in Scotland can do to stop it.
 
  One, notable factor in each of these last three games has been the introduction of Ryan Christie to the Celtic midfield. The Inverness-born talent was no more than an afterthought in the club’s summer transfer window, yet slowly but surely he’s worked his way in to Rodgers’ plans and has grasped the recent opportunity to prove his worth in green and white with both hands.
 
  Indeed, Christie has played all but one half of Celtic’s last four games and in that select period of time the 23-year-old has picked up no less than three goals and two assists. Leading many - perhaps even his manager - to wonder whether the former Aberdeen loanee does in fact have a long-term role to play at the Glasgow club.
 
  Christie’s speed, strength and sheer determination to dart through the middle of the pitch with or without the ball has led to an inevitable comparison with Stuart Armstrong. Not only has the young Scot obviously featured in his predecessor’s natural position for Rodgers’ side, but when we consider what he brings to this Celtic team there are fair comparisons to be made.
 
  Taking Armstrong’s stats from the 2016/17 season (He was mostly injured or disinterested in 2017/18) we can see that Christie’s brief run in the Celtic team this season are not only comparable to the former midfield star’s, but at times even better.

Lewis Ferguson: I'm never been fazed by the big occasions ... but credit to Barry Robson for passing on his free-kick knowhow
2018-11-05 22:32:20
https://www.heraldscotland.com/sport/17203138.lewis-ferguson-im-never-been-fazed-by-the-big-occasions-but-credit-to-barry-robson-for-passing-on-his-free-kick-knowhow/

  OLD Goldenballs himself couldn’t have struck it any better. David Beckham versus Greece, Leigh Griffiths versus England (x2); it takes a special mixture of technique and temperament to deliver on a free-kick when the world seems to be watching and for Lewis Ferguson right now everything seems to be coming up roses. Aberdeen’s 19-year-old midfield wonder kid might have had more attention on him than usual when he stepped up in the dying minutes of his side’s come-from-behind 2-1 win against Kilmarnock at Rugby Park on Sunday but yet again he proved he was a man for the big occasion. Shrugging off the claim to Gary Mackay-Steven to steer a right foot shot into the corner of Jamie MacDonald’s net, Ferguson afterwards paid tribute to the painstaking work he does with Aberdeen coach Barry Robson after training, a man who could hit a pretty mean free kick instead.
 
  “Usually I fight with Niall [McGinn] for the free kicks,” said Ferguson. “But credit to Barry Robson. He stays out with me for about half an hour after training and we just practise free kicks. He was a good free-kick taker so he gives me loads of tips. It’s always me or Niall. I don’t think any of the other boys really fancy it. But I fancied that one and thankfully it went in the back of the net.”
 
  With sources of goals in Alex McLeish’s Scotland team not quite so obvious right now with the likes of Steven Naismith and Leigh Griffiths posted missing, there was speculation yesterday as to whether Ferguson – the son of Rangers legend Derek – could even find himself fast-tracked into the full squad in time for the matches against Albania and Israel. That seems a little premature but, as he puts it himself, the big occasion certainly “doesn’t faze him”. He shrugged off the notion that the events of the week should somehow have taken anything out of him.
 
  “Recovering mentally? I don’t really think much about it,” said Ferguson. “The big occasion doesn’t really faze me. The bigger the game, the bigger the occasion, I enjoy it even more. But physically it was tough. The semi-final on Sunday was a later kick-off and then we had to recover in time for the game against Hamilton. I played 90 minutes there and then 90 minutes against Kilmarnock. It’s tough on the legs but Monday is a day off and then back to work on Tuesday.”
 
  Aberdeen inched to seventh after what was a slow start to the season on the back of this scarcely-deserved 2-1 win, but the Ladbrokes Premiership is a marathon, not a sprint. After three big wins in a week, Ferguson for one sees no reason why they can’t overhaul early leaders Hearts to book a European berth. Take another three points on Friday night against Hibs and Aberdeen will suddenly be rocking.

Ally McCoist: Steven Gerrard needs better quality for Rangers to win trophies - there must be a turnover of players
2018-11-05 22:30:00
https://www.heraldscotland.com/sport/17203001.ally-mccoist-steven-gerrard-needs-better-quality-for-rangers-to-win-trophies-there-must-be-a-turnover-of-players/

  ALLY McCoist recalled a humorous moment from a previous Rangers foray into Russia as he helped to launch the Kris Boyd Testimonial match down at Rugby Park yesterday.
 
  It occurred during the Champions League qualifier against Vladikavkaz back at the start of the 1996/97 season as the Ibrox club – thanks in no small part to a hat-trick from McCoist – eased to a 7-2 win and a 10-3 aggregate triumph.
 
  “After we knocked in the seventh goal their wee coach walked over, shook hands with Walter and Archie (manager Smith and his assistant Knox) then walked out the stadium,” he said. “They were saying: ‘Where’s he gone?’ He just disappeared.”
 
  The legendary Rangers striker has no concerns about Liverpool and England great Steven Gerrard, whose side face a difficult away game against Spartak Moscow in the Europa League on Thursday evening, doing a similar vanishing act any time soon.
 
  A man who knows all too well about how demanding being in charge of the Glasgow giants can be – he spent three-and-a-half seasons in the position that Gerrard now occupies during a far more turbulent and uncertain period in their history – has been pleased at how well the current incumbent has done in the opening months of the season.

"Alfredo Morelos can become the first Rangers striker to hit 30 goals in a decade - if he cuts out the bookings"
2018-11-05 23:49:30
https://www.heraldscotland.com/sport/17203017.alfredo-morelos-can-become-the-first-rangers-striker-to-hit-30-goals-in-a-decade-if-he-cuts-out-the-bookings/

  ALFREDO Morelos is capable of becoming the first Rangers striker in a decade to score 30 goals in a season – but only if he improves his temperament.
 
  That was the message from record Ibrox goalscorer Ally McCoist yesterday as he helped to launch the Kris Boyd Testimonial match at Rugby Park.
 
  Morelos took his tally for the season to 14 with an injury-time strike in the Ladbrokes Premiership match against St Mirren in Paisley on Saturday.
 
  The last Rangers player to break through the magical 30 mark in a single season was Boyd way back in the 2008/09 campaign when he netted 31 in all competitions.
 
  McCoist is confident the current Rangers centre forward has the ability to match that impressive feat in the coming months.

Kris Boyd: My Fortnite loser dance was just banter with the Aberdeen fans - I wish I'd had a pie lobbed at me
2018-11-05 22:30:00
https://www.heraldscotland.com/sport/17203072.kris-boyd-my-fortnite-loser-dance-was-just-banter-with-the-aberdeen-fans-i-wish-id-had-a-pie-lobbed-at-me/

  KRIS Boyd has urged the Scottish football authorities to do everything in their power to halt the escalation in crowd trouble at high-profile games – but warned that punishing clubs for the conduct of their fans is not the answer.
 
  Boyd has been appalled at the spate of ugly incidents in Ladbrokes Premiership games in the past week and is hopeful those responsible can be caught and punished.
 
  In the Edinburgh derby at Tynecastle last Wednesday night Hearts keeper Zdenek Zlamal was punched by a sup-porter and Hibs manager Neil Lennon was struck in the face by a pound coin.
 
Rangers striker Alfredo Morelos was also hit by a missile as he celebrated his injury-time goal in the league game against St Mirren in Paisley on Saturday.
 
  There have been calls for the introduction of strict liability – which would see clubs fined, forced to play behind closed doors and even docked points - in recent days as a result of the sickening flashpoints.

"You need to know your rivals and you have to better than them". Dame Kelly Holmes on how Laura Muir can fulfil her Olympic dream
2018-11-05 22:32:04
https://www.heraldscotland.com/sport/17203136.you-need-to-know-your-rivals-and-you-have-to-better-than-them-dame-kelly-holmes-on-how-laura-muir-can-fulfil-her-olympic-dream/

  NOT content with being a double Olympic champion, a lofty part of the honours system and a colonel in the British army, apparently Dame Kelly Holmes is now also a clairvoyant. The guest of honour at Saturday night’s FPSG annual Scottish athletics awards, the 48-year-old introduced the winner of the athlete of the year award, Laura Muir, with the words ‘Future Olympic champion’. This was no mere slip of the tongue or crowd-pleasing piece of hyperbole; having staked her claim as the No 1 1500m runner on the planet with victory in the Diamond League final in Brussels, Holmes is convinced that Muir has what it takes to bring back gold from Tokyo.
 
  “Yes, absolutely she can,” said Holmes. “You can see the natural talent, obviously, but it’s more than that. When you’re the best in the world it’s more about your composure, your ability to understand your tactics, your awareness of others. And she just gets it right.”
 
  As eye-catching as it was when Muir ran away from the rest of the field in Berlin to land her maiden major outdoor title at the European Championships in September, none of her major rivals were in that field. Sifan Hassan of the Netherlands, who opted for the 5,000m instead, was one of four athletes with a faster 1500m time than her this year. With staging posts along the way at the European Indoors in Glasgow next March and at the World Championships in Doha in September, the Scot’s next trick is working out how to finish ahead of the rest of the elite company which she now inhabits – the likes of Genzebe Dibaba, Shelby Houlihan, Hassan and young Ethiopian Gudaf Tsegay on one particular day in Tokyo in 2020. It is a bit like Andy Murray having to be in better form than Roger Federer, Rafa Nadal and Novak Djokovic during Wimbledon fortnight.
 
  “She’s already there,” said Holmes. “My only advice would be to keep doing what she’s doing and to keep learning with every race she runs – each different race, different tactics, and different awareness of yourself.
 
  "She’s got two years’ more growth until Tokyo, she’s now not going to be doing her veterinary studies so she’s no got more chance of focusing 100 per cent on what she needs to do to improve on anything she feels she’s missed out on,” Holmes added. “Next year will be a great year for her again. You’ve got the world champs outdoors, which I always think that is a really good tester for the following year.

Stuart Hogg could be in line to make dramatic return from injury weeks ahead of schedule
2018-11-05 22:32:16
https://www.heraldscotland.com/sport/17203137.british-irish-lion-could-provide-much-needed-boost-for-gregor-townsends-side-against-fiji/

  STUART Hogg is set to return to action well ahead of schedule and could even make his comeback against Fiji on Saturday in a bid to help the national team turn things around following their 21-10 defeat in Wales.
 
  The two-time British & Irish Lions tourist was expected to be out until the turn of the year after having to undergo ankle surgery in September.
 
  However he demonstrated his eagerness to get back involved when functioning as a ‘water-boy’ for his Glasgow Warriors team-mates in Swansea on Friday evening and along with Glasgow Warriors colleagues Adam Ashe, Scott Cummings and Nick Grigg, as well as their former clubmates Josh Strauss and Dunc Weir, he was among six players called into the Scotland squad yesterday.
 
  The scheduling of the team announcement was meanwhile pushed back from Wednesday to Thursday and while assistant coach Danny Wilson would not confirm that the two are related, that will give Hogg additional time to prove his fitness.
 
  “We have to wait and see how the next three days go. It’s quite an important week ahead,” said Wilson.

Celtic goalkeeper Craig Gordon warns it is too early to write off Parkhead side's Europa League ambitions
2018-11-05 23:50:25
https://www.heraldscotland.com/sport/17202628.celtic-goalkeeper-craig-gordon-warns-it-is-too-early-to-write-off-parkhead-sides-europa-league-ambitions/

Celtic goalkeeper Craig Gordon has refused to write off the Parkhead side’s Europa League ambitions as Brendan Rodgers’ side prepare to host RB Leipzig on Thursday evening.
 
  The Bundesliga side hold all the aces going into the game; a three point lead over Celtic who are currently in this spot and superior goal difference advantage, something that could well come into play if the two clubs are locked in a fight for the second berth in Group B. Salzburg, also bankrolled by the giant energy drink company, look like easing their way to a straightforward first place finish.
 
  Celtic have two of their remaining three games to play at home with the advantage that brings an obvious one. The Parkhead side are notoriously travel sick when it comes to their Continental jaunts but appear far more capable of doing damage on their own soil.
 
  “We believe we are still in the group and there were things we saw from Leipzig, and in our [first-leg] performance, that gives us hope in Glasgow,” said the Scotland internationalist.
 
  “The home games were always going to be vital for us. We’ve got Leipzig and Salzburg to come to Scotland, while we always felt we’d need to pick up something away from home at some point.

Ally McCoist: Kris Boyd could be like Peter van Sebo – but he’s the greatest Scottish goalscorer of his generation
2018-11-05 23:51:07
https://www.heraldscotland.com/sport/17203041.ally-mccoist-kris-boyd-could-be-like-peter-van-sebo-but-hes-the-greatest-scottish-goalscorer-of-his-generation/

  RANGERS legend Ally McCoist yesterday helped to launch the testimonial match for the man he believes is the greatest Scottish goalscorer of his generation – Kilmarnock striker Kris Boyd.
 
  McCoist, who played with Boyd at Kilmarnock at the end of his career and managed him at Rangers, will take charge of a Rangers Euro XI in a game against a Kilmarnock Heroes XI at Rugby Park on Saturday, November 17.
 
  The Ibrox great is looking forward to meeting up with Charlie Adam, Boyd, Carlos Cuellar and a host of other famous names from the past and believes the occasion will be a fitting tribute to the former Scotland centre forward.
 
  “What can you say about Boydy?” he said. “In all honesty, in my opinion, he is probably the greatest Scottish goalscorer of his generation. I really think so.
 
  “I love watching him. A lot of his talen is natural. if not all of it. You didn’t really need to coach Boydy. You would maybe have a wee chat with him about where to go occasionally. But in terms of the actual finish he knew, Boydy knew.

Melrose RFC clinch sponsorship deal for 2019 Sevens tournament
2018-11-05 10:02:46
https://www.heraldscotland.com/sport/17201413.melrose-rfc-clinch-sponsorship-deal-for-2019-sevens-tournament/

  MELROSE RFC have clinched a stadium and kit sponsorship deal ahead of the 2019 Sevens tournament.
 
Coatbridge-based steel firm Cairnhill will have their logo on Melrose strips and the main stand at their Greenyards ground will be renamed the Cairnhill Steel Solutions Stand.
 
  Melrose RFC President Douglas Hardie commented: “We are delighted to confirm that Cairnhill have agreed to be a sponsor at the sevens in 2019.
 
  "With their emphasis on junior rugby and the event, the company is a perfect fit at The Greenyards.
 
  "The specialist steel fabricator and contractor based in Coatbridge will become a partner and sponsor for the 2019 Melrose Sevens on April 13th and this will include the renaming of the main grandstand as the Cairnhill Steel Solutions Stand. 

Can Callum McGregor perform the Scott Brown role against RB Leipzig and keep Celtic's European hopes alive?
2018-11-05 07:00:00
https://www.heraldscotland.com/sport/17199899.can-callum-mcgregor-perform-the-scott-brown-role-against-rb-leipzig-and-keep-celtics-european-hopes-alive/

Celtic’s fine run of domestic form continued on Saturday when they beat Hearts 5-0 at Parkhead to move to within one point of the Ladbrokes Premiership leaders with a game in hand.
 
  The Scottish champions will now turn their attentions to the Europa League– they play German opponents RB Leipzig in a crucial Group B match in Glasgow on Thursday evening.
 
  Brendan Rodgers’s side, beaten 2-0 by Ralf Rangnick’s team in the Red Bull Arena last month, need to win to keep alive their chances of reaching the last 32.
 
  HOW ARE CELTIC LOOKING AHEAD OF LEIPZIG?
 
  In great shape. The win over Hearts at the weekend was their seventh in succession in domestic competition. During that run they have scored 25 goals, kept six clean sheets and conceded just twice. Their patchy early-season form, which saw them lose to Hearts and Kilmarnock and draw with St Mirren, has been put firmly behind them. They are defending well, creating chances and, more often than not, taking them.

Justin Rose returns to world No 1 with Turkish Airlines Open win
2018-11-05 04:52:11
https://www.heraldscotland.com/sport/17201021.justin-rose-returns-to-world-no-1-with-turkish-airlines-open-win/

  It was more of a stumble back to the world No.1 spot rather than a surge but when you’re drinking the celebratory champagne, it doesn’t really matter how you get the cork out of the bottle.
 
  A captivating, head-scratching finale to the Turkish Airlines Open, which seemed to have more ding-dong than a bell tower, ended with Rose nabbing the prize and that lofty perch on the global order as the Englishman successfully defended a title for the first time in his career with a play-off victory over the hapless Haotong Li.
 
  Nothing comes easy in this game and Rose certainly had to chisel this one out after finishing locked at the top with Li on a 17-under aggregate. He made a bit of a hash of the 18th when he missed a slippery three-footer to win the title after Li had three-putted.
 
  But Li then made an ever bigger mess of the 18th when the duo played it again in the sudden-death shoot-out. Rose had missed a birdie putt of some 12 feet and, from just inside him, his Chinese rival, who is the same management company, had a putt of his own to plunder his third European Tour crown.
 
  Fortunes can change quickly in this unpredictable pursuit, of course. The 23-year-old raced his first effort some three-feet past the hole and then, remarkably and agonisingly, dunted the next one wide of the cup.

Stephen Gallacher welcomes new Scottish European Tour recruits
2018-11-05 16:39:36
https://www.heraldscotland.com/sport/17201019.stephen-gallacher-welcomes-new-scottish-european-tour-recruits/

  Stephen Gallacher rolled out the welcome mat to Scotland’s new recruits on the European Tour and told them not to change a thing now that they’ve made it to the top table.
 
  A terrific season for the tartan contingent on the Challenge Tour ended with Grant Forrest, Robert MacIntyre, Liam Johnston and David Law sealing promotion from the rankings at the conclusion of the Grand Final in the UAE.
 
  Of 15 graduates in total, four from the cradle of the game was a pretty good strike rate. At a time when we’ve been crying out for a fresh injection of young talent on the main tour, the
 
  Scottish quartet answered the rallying cry in fine style. Getting on the tour is one thing. Thriving on it is another. The hard work really begins now but Gallacher, a hardy perennial of the circuit, is confident his countrymen will rise to the challenge.
 
  “The best bit of advice I can give is not to change anything,” said the former Ryder Cup player. “Just do the same stuff you’ve been doing. It’s got you here so keep going and look forward to it.

Derek McInnes: Lewis Ferguson will be a Scotland star of the future
2018-11-05 00:01:19
https://www.heraldscotland.com/sport/17200877.derek-mcinnes-lewis-ferguson-will-be-a-scotland-star-of-the-future/

  DEREK McINNES hailed Lewis Ferguson as future Scotland superstar last night, after the 19-year-old stepped up with a priceless late winning goal for Aberdeen for the second time in a week. Eight days after he had headed in the late winner at Hampden which will take the Dons back to the national stadium next month for the Betfred Cup final, the teenager stepped up to curl a wicked free-kick beyond Kilmarnock’s Jamie MacDonald to seal the 2-1 win which give the Pittodrie side a crucial three points in the Ladbrokes Premiership table.
 
  While McInnes stopped short of saying the teenager should be included in Alex McLeish’s squad for the upcoming Uefa Nations League double header against Albania and Israel, these are matches Scotland must approach without both Steven Naismith and almost certainly Leigh Griffiths, and with the status of Fulham’s Tom Cairney uncertain. There is sure to be a clamour in some parts to see the Scotland Under-21 star promoted to the full-side.
 
  “For me he will [play for Scotland], whether he is ready for it now, it’s not my job to do that,” said McInnes. “But the boy was born to play football and born to play on the big occasion, and I’m sure everything will come his way in time.”
 
  Ferguson has certainly proved capable of handling the steps up in class which have come his way thus far. Considering all the
 
  headlines the teenager has commanded since nodding in that semi-final winner against Rangers, the club his father Derek and uncle Barry graced with such distinction, it was impressive that he should shrug off all that exposure to back that performance up in the manner he did yesterday.

Neil Mackay: Darkness will descend all over the West if Trump wins tonight
2018-11-06 05:02:16
https://www.heraldscotland.com/news/17203394.neil-mackay-darkness-will-descend-all-over-the-west-if-trump-wins-tonight/

  THE United States goes to the polls today with thoughts of a second American civil war in voters’ minds. These aren’t the paranoid fantasies of liberals driven mad by Donald Trump in the White House, these are the fears of conservative scholars like Victor Davis Hanson of Stanford University’s Hoover Institute – a man who voted twice for George W Bush. Writing in the conservative National Review, Professor Hanson said that the US had”‘arrived at the brink of a veritable civil war”.
 
  “Whether we all take a deep breath, and understand our present dangerous trajectory, will determine whether 2019 becomes 1861,” he wrote. By 1865, after four years of fighting, the civil war had claimed more American lives than any other conflict before or since.
 
  The echoes of the civil war are everywhere. As Mr Trump ordered American troops to the US-Mexico border to deal with a “caravan” of impoverished men, women and children from Honduras, seeking a new life in America, the President turned his ire on the 14th amendment of the constitution which guarantees citizenship to anyone born in the States. Written in the aftermath of the civil war, it was expressly conceived to give equal protection under the law to former slaves.
 
  Mr Trump is putting a crowbar into a fault-line in American life, and wrenching it open – playing to those who see “citizenship” and “white” as the same thing. The dog whistle of the 14th amendment is as alluring to a white supremacist as the word “globalist” is to an anti-Semite.
 
  Civil conflict, though, isn’t the only dread haunting American voters as they cast their ballot in today’s crucial midterm elections – there is talk in the US every week of a slow-moving coup, of the rise of fascism, of a country so sundered it can never be put back together again. Yesterday, the great American novelist Don DeLillo said he doubted his country could recover from the Trump presidency. The truth is: America is already in a state of cold war with itself.

The Diary: Cowboys and Indians
2018-11-06 05:00:00
https://www.heraldscotland.com/opinion/17202712.the-diary-cowboys-and-indians/

  Lost its sparkle
 
  WELL, did you enjoy Guy Fawkes Night last night? We always liked the description by a reader who told us: "Experience the anticlimax of a back garden firework display by setting fire to your wallet and throwing it over a shed."
 
  Spiced up
 
  SO the Spice Girls are going back on tour next year with a concert at Murrayfield included in the shows. Football fans will appreciate Andy Dewar's observation: "Scottish football chiefs originally wanted the Spice Girls reunion to be at Hampden on June 22 next year, the same day P!nk is due to play the national stadium."
 
  Chucking it

Letters: We will suffer post-Brexit for our reliance on the service sector
2018-11-06 05:14:09
https://www.heraldscotland.com/opinion/17203468.letters-we-will-suffer-post-brexit-for-our-reliance-on-the-service-sector/

  RICHARD Mowbray (Letters, November 5) presents a rosy picture of a future UK based on his analysis of financial statistics. I would question that interpretation. Worldwide the UK may stand fifth-largest in terms of gross GDP but when one looks at international comparisons, per capita the UK comes somewhere between 24th and 30th ; our near neighbours Ireland are fifth. Mr Mowbray avoids international comparisons of household disposable income where the UK has crashed from fifth place in the early 2000s to currently somewhere in the lower teens. The EU isn't responsible, it was our own Government that did that or allowed it to happen.
 
  We have a national debt approaching £2 trillion that continues to increase rather than reduce. Even if the debt were to be paid off over a period of 20 years where would the Exchequer find the £100 billion every year to do so? Perhaps by privatising the NHS and slashing social services? It already pays eight per cent of tax revenue on interest payments; does Mr Mowbray suggest it initially spends 25 per cent of our taxes to pay down the debt and to service the loan repayments? If not, Brexit or no Brexit the UK will drag the ball and chain of debt behind it for decades while the financial sector continues to siphon off some of the taxes paid by those fortunate to be in work and I and my contemporaries pay from our pensions simply because we had the wit to use part of our already-taxed income to pay into one.
 
  Our economy relies too heavily on the service sector; it cannot be sustained by us selling pizzas to each other or a financial sector based on finding effective ways of hiding the Establishment’s wealth. Post-Brexit we will be an isolated island having to find new export markets; just what will we be exporting that China can’t make at a fraction of the price?
 
  Its shows how little we have learned that a century after the "war to end wars" a tiny section of society can still manipulate the general public into accepting a state of affairs that is against its own interests.
 
  David J Crawford,

Herald View: More research needed into e-cigarettes
2018-11-06 05:05:57
https://www.heraldscotland.com/opinion/17203422.herald-view-more-research-needed-into-e-cigarettes/

  THE distinctively fruity scent gives the game away: another person is puffing away on an e-cigarette, a device widely seen as a less harmful alternative to genuine cigarettes. That description is supported by health organisations from NHS Scotland to the Royal College of Physicians.
 
  But a study, funded by Cancer Research UK, and to be presented in Glasgow today at the 2018 National Cancer Research Institute Cancer Conference, makes interesting reading.Twenty-nine per cent of health professionals would not recommend e-cigarettes to cancer patients who already smoke. More than half of those surveyed did not know enough about e-cigarettes to make recommendations to patients. A quarter did not know whether e-cigarettes were less harmful than smoking. The researchers, with justification, say their findings indicate a need for clearer guidance and training for health professionals around endorsing e-cigarettes to cancer patients who smoke.
 
  But concerns have been expressed that children and teenagers who have never smoked are turning to e-cigarettes, seeing them as “cool”, and drawn, at least in part, by the sweet or fruit flavours. The US Food and Drug Administration speaks of an “epidemic” among young people who are using the devices and are getting hooked on nicotine. A leading US manufacturer is to discontinue most of its flavoured e-cigarettes. A RAND Corporation study says that adolescents who vape are not only more likely to smoke cigarettes but are also likely to increase their use of both products eventually. On the other hand, a Public Health England e-cigarette evidence review, published last February, said the evidence did not support the concern that e-cigarettes were a route into smoking among young people.
 
  The previous month, scientists said vaping may raise the risk of certain cancers and heart disease. Though e-cigarettes may help people to give up smoking, there is as yet no clear consensus on the devices as a whole.

Agenda: McGarvey omission gives pause for thought
2018-11-06 17:58:25
https://www.heraldscotland.com/opinion/17203384.omission-of-darren-mcgarveys-poverty-safari-omission-gives-pause-for-thought/

Hannah McGill
 
  PRIZE juries make their own choices. I’ve been on lots, and they’ve done some eccentric things. Still, the omission from the shortlists of our publicly funded literary awards of a singularly impactful and important Scottish book is a surprise and a headscratcher. Darren McGarvey’s Poverty Safari was first published by Edinburgh’s Luath Press, then picked up by Picador, then won the hugely prestigious Orwell Prize for political journalism. The Guardian praised its “honesty and wisdom”; the Financial Times called it “urgently written, articulate and emotional”; even the New York Times covered it. But the Saltire Awards didn’t progress it into serious contention – even though there are only four books on a Best First Book shortlist that has room for six, and even though Luath has been nominated in its Best Publisher Awards in part for its achievement in publishing it.
 
  Again, prize juries make their own choices, and those don’t need to be accounted for as long as basic protocols have been followed, like the one where any jury member unable to be impartial due to personal connections to an entrant recuses him or herself from sitting in judgement of that work. The Saltire Society assures me that every book entered was judged on literary merit. And it’s true that having had such vast impact, and having represented and reached a sector of Scottish society not always visible in the literary world, didn’t guarantee Poverty Safari a place on the shortlist (although I would note that in the time I was a Saltire judge, we progressed many books on the basis that they just mattered too much to be chucked out at the first round).
 
  This omission still gives pause, however. It follows several years when, despite a rising profile as a rapper and commentator prior to the publication of Poverty Safari, McGarvey wasn’t named in another rundown of significant Scottish cultural figures, the List magazine’s Hot 100. (He’s out again this year, since it’s all women, though an editorial note acknowledges the book’s prominence.) It makes you wonder about tall poppy syndrome, when a work so honoured elsewhere gets junked in its homeland. And it calls to mind the current fad for “no platforming” individuals whose viewpoint affronts particular sensibilities. McGarvey, after all, has got many backs up in the past, not least by querying how feminist discourse about “male privilege” is read by men who live in serious deprivation, and how poverty intersects with violence. (He knows a bit about this through the work he’s done with the Scottish Violence Reduction Unit.) Finally, and unfortunately, it reinforces an impression held by many: that our cultural gatekeepers don’t wish to hear from the wrong side of the tracks.
 
  I don’t endorse the latter idea: it’s unfair to the countless Scottish artists and arts workers who had complicated routes into their fields and who certainly aren’t subsisting on foie gras now. (Indeed, for balance, I’d say that McGarvey’s work is flawed by his tendency to portray people not in poverty as an undifferentiated blob of smug privilege.) The Saltire Awards has certainly honoured writers from various backgrounds in the past. Still, this snub should function as a reminder to keep an eye on the gradient of the playing field. “I didn’t work this damn hard/To stay where I belong,” runs a lyric by Edinburgh band Young Fathers, another success story from Scotland’s unmoneyed tiers. We who have influence in culture must be vigilant that we’re not restricting where others feel they belong – and that personal animosities don’t pollute processes that are, after all, conducted on behalf of all of Scotland.

Letters: Poverty at root of sectarian violence
2018-11-06 05:14:54
https://www.heraldscotland.com/opinion/17203472.letters-poverty-at-root-of-sectarian-violence/

  I WRITE on the subject of last week’s events at Tynecastle, and more broadly on the subject of poverty, sectarianism and violence in Scotland (“’Time for football’s leaders to do more than just talk about action’”, The Herald, November 3, and Letters, November 3).
 
  I, like many, was appalled to see both the Hearts goalkeeper and the Hibs manager assaulted in what was clearly a tense and ill-tempered evening in Edinburgh.
 
  If one thing unites the sectarian divide in the Scotland it’s frustration with the platitudes and pious condemnation without action. This is Scotland, an allegedly forward-looking, so-called “progressive” nation in 2018, and yet we are seemingly unable to tolerate our fellow citizens on the basis of football colours and/or perceived religious affiliation.
 
  Reading and listening to the various analyses I can’t help but think that we are missing the point. The inexorable links between poverty, sectarianism, substance misuse and violence are seldom raised as modifiable factors in the debate. Indeed sectarianism in Glasgow was initially rooted in economic anxiety related to a perceived threat of immigrants, themselves fleeing famine and poverty.
 
  One in four of Scotland’s children live in poverty, a shameful figure that is worsening. Instead of having a fevered debate about religious expression and alcohol in football grounds, should we not be addressing poverty and inequality as the core causes of sectarianism and violence in Scotland? I am not suggesting this will result in an overnight revolution, but change takes time, and in this case an admission of our failings.

THOSE WERE THE DAYS - 1962: Another trophy presentation to the great Matt Busby
2018-11-06 05:03:14
https://www.heraldscotland.com/opinion/17203404.those-were-the-days-1962-another-trophy-presentation-to-the-great-matt-busby/

  IN October 1962, more than four years after suffering serious injuries in the Munich air disaster that claimed the lives of 23 people, including eight of his Manchester United players, Matt Busby arrived in Glasgow to be presented with the Glasgow Charity Cup.
 
  Two months earlier, on August 8 (a few days, incidentally, after the death of Marilyn Monroe), Busby’s United team had beaten a Glasgow select by four goals to two at Hampden. The Glasgow side had five players each from Rangers and Celtic, and one from Partick Thistle, but it wasn’t strong enough to prevent a defeat. The Glasgow Herald’s Cyril Horne reported that United had won “after a late recovery which surprised the Glasgow Select team just as much as it did the crowd of some 82,000.” Three Scots in the Manchester side - David Herd, Ian Moir and Denis Law - did the late damage.
 
  When Busby returned in October to be presented with the cup by Lord Provost Jean Roberts, it was revealed that the match had raised a record £14,000, which would be distributed to 67 good causes organisations. The cup had been established in 1876 and had now raised a grand total of almost £320,000.
 
  Mrs Roberts told Busby that she hoped that the Glasgow team would be given a chance the following year to reclaim the trophy. Busby said he knew his directors would be so pleased with the outcome of the match that he was sure that United would be back.

Margaret Taylor: A Tory MP making a stand for the poor? Don’t bet on it
2018-11-06 07:13:02
https://www.heraldscotland.com/news/17203423.margaret-taylor-a-tory-mp-making-a-stand-for-the-poor-dont-bet-on-it/

  WHETHER it’s a Scottish politician praising legislation designed to curtail the reproductive rights of the poor or a Westminster front bench giving vociferous support to what are seen as poverty-inducing benefit reforms, the Tories are doing a great job of living up to their image as a nasty party whose sympathies lie only with the privileged few.
 
  Thank goodness for Tracey Crouch, then, the Conservative MP for Chatham and Aylesford who resigned as sports minister last week in protest at what she said was an “unjustifiable” delay to a policy aimed at tackling the scourge of problem gambling. Having long campaigned for the maximum bet that can be placed via bookie-shop slot machines to be reduced from £100 to £2, Ms Crouch said she was taking a stand after Chancellor Philip Hammond announced that the change will be introduced in October next year and not April as she had been expecting.
 
  The effects of this, she said, will be profound, with £1.6 billion expected to be lost on these machines between May 2018, when the reduction was agreed, and October 2019, when it will now take effect. Worse still, she wrote in her resignation letter, “a significant amount” of the total will be lost “in our most deprived areas”.
 
  It is no secret that gambling and hardship go hand in hand, with the Scottish Government as long ago as 2006 issuing a report that found that “disadvantaged social groups who experience poverty, unemployment, dependence on welfare, and low levels of education and household income are most likely to suffer the adverse consequences of increased gambling”. The clustering of betting shops in areas of deprivation such as Glasgow’s Dumbarton Road has long been a cause for concern and that report, which was written by University of Glasgow professor Gerda Reith, whose research focuses on problematic forms of consumption, also found that “availability and convenience are strongly associated with problem gambling”.
 
  Having been introduced after then Chancellor Gordon Brown abolished betting duties in 2001, the so-called fixed-odds betting terminals (FOBTs) Ms Crouch has resigned over were still in their infancy when Professor Reith’s report was issued. In the years since, though, they have come to represent all that is wrong with the gambling industry, not least because they enable customers to place £100 bets every 20 seconds, leading some to lose thousands in a single sitting.

Lairg's heroine
2018-11-06 05:15:21
https://www.heraldscotland.com/opinion/17203479.lairgs-heroine/

  NURSE Annie Campbell Reid, named on Grangemouth's war memorial, is not the only woman whose name is recorded on such a memorial in Scotland. Sister Isabella Mackenzie is named on the Lairg, Sutherland, memorial, along with her three brothers. Three brothers from two other families are also named there.
 
  J L Goskirk,
 
  Rathvilly, Lairg.

Darcey Bussell: A life in dance
2018-11-04 05:21:37
https://www.heraldscotland.com/arts_ents/17199985.darcey-bussell-a-life-in-dance/

  “SORRY, I’ve got somebody wanting a picture.”
 
  Darcey Bussell has just been spotted. She’s in the street in London, mobile phone stuck to her ear, talking to a journalist (that will be me), aware that she has a train to catch and also now accosted by a couple of teenagers.
 
  “Someone wants to know what shoes I’m wearing,” she tells me before breaking off to talk to them. “I think they’re called Atlantic Stars,” she says to them. “I think I bought them here. Yes. I did.”
 
  The picture is taken, the trainer brand duly noted, and her accosters go away happy.
 
  She apologises to me once more. “Sorry.”

Fiddle star Mike Vass on The Four Pillars – and an unusual experiment
2018-11-06 12:20:27
https://www.heraldscotland.com/arts_ents/17203976.fiddle-star-mike-vass-on-the-four-pillars-and-an-unusual-experiment/

  MIKE Vass is talking about his latest commission, which premieres at the Scots Fiddle Festival in Edinburgh this month, and commenting on how he almost forgot about it because of the time lag between initial discussions and being given the go-ahead.
 
  A composer forgetting about a commission might sound unlikely and, indeed, even affectedly blasé. Demand for Vass’ services as a record producer in recent times, however, has filled his diary to the extent that things that might take a week to ten days under normal circumstances now have to be packed into an eight-hour shift.
 
  The recording of The Four Pillars – in a switch from standard practice, Vass is going to perform the new piece and have it on sale at the concert – took place in one day less than a week following its completion and is being pressed onto CDs even as Vass speaks to your correspondent.
 
  “It’s been quite an intense process,” says Vass, who exudes the air of a man for whom intensity could never in a million years equate to becoming flustered. “There was quite a delay while the fiddle festival waited to hear about funding, which tends to be the way of these things, and I actually started writing the music on September 25 and completed it about three weeks later.”
 
  Named for the four main tune styles in Scottish traditional music – the slow air, march, strathspey and reel – The Four Pillars features nine melodies played by some of the leading fiddle players in Scotland who have been well chosen for their specialisms. Lauren MacColl, herself a composer and a former winner of the BBC’s Young Folk award, is eminently suited to playing the slow airs with her ultra-expressive, deeply characterful style. Perthshire’s Patsy Reid will play the strathspeys and her Shetland-born namesake, Jenna Reid the reels, while Vass himself takes the marches.

Touching theatrical tribute to Scots war poet Charles Hamilton Sorley
2018-11-06 06:00:00
https://www.heraldscotland.com/arts_ents/17201728.touching-theatrical-tribute-to-scots-war-poet-charles-hamilton-sorley/

  It took 28 years for Neil McPherson to write It Is Easy To Be Dead, the writer and artistic director of London’s Finborough Theatre’s homage to First World War poet Charles Hamilton Sorley, which arrives in Scotland this week for a short run in Aberdeen and Glasgow following the play’s West End success.
 
  McPherson’s original idea as a young actor in 1988 was to write and perform a one-man show about Sorley’s better known contemporary, Wilfred Owen. A director told McPherson that there were lots of plays about Owen already, and that he should do one about Sorley instead.
 
  McPherson had been running the Finborough Theatre for 17 years by the time he began what would become It Is Easy To Be Dead, and programmed it as part of a season to commemorate the 100th anniversary of the war. Keen to come at things from a different angle, McPherson’s 2014 season included the English-language premiere of German playwright Rolf Hochhuth’s Summer 14 – A Dance of Death, which looked at the war from a German and European perspective.
 
  The following year, McPherson wrote I Wish to Die Singing, a documentary drama written in response to the 100th anniversary of the Armenian genocide, when a million and a half people were killed in what was then the Turkish city of Constantinople, now Istanbul.
 
  The real labour of love, however, came in 2016 when McPherson premiered It Is Easy To Be Dead. The production was greeted with universal acclaim, was nominated for an Olivier Award and transferred to the West End. When the play is revived this week for dates in Aberdeen and Glasgow enabled by the show’s original producer Breon Rydell in association with Edinburgh-based spoken-word night Neu! Reekie!, it will be a homecoming of sorts for Sorley’s legacy.

ARTS NEWS: Queen's Hall marks 40 years, Kelvingrove remembers WW1, and Cromarty unveils film festival
2018-11-06 05:03:19
https://www.heraldscotland.com/arts_ents/17203407.arts-news-queens-hall-marks-40-years-kelvingrove-remembers-ww1-and-cromarty-unveils-film-festival/

  THE Queen's Hall venue in Edinburgh is celebrating its 40th year of music in 2019.
 
  The celebrations start on 12 January with singer-songwriters brought together on the same stage by fiddle player, John McCusker.
 
  In Southside of the Tracks: 40 years of traditional music at The Queen’s Hall, he will perform with his chosen house band of James Mackintosh, Ian Carr, Ewen Vernal, Michael McGoldrick and Louis Abbott (Admiral Fallow) with special guests Roddy Woomble (Idlewild), Kathleen MacInnes, Phil Cunningham, Adam Holmes, Daoiri Farrell, Heidi Talbot and Rachel Sermanni.
 
  Nigel Griffiths, chair of The Queen’s Hall board of trustees, said: “We’re starting our fortieth year as we mean to go on and have a bold and ambitious programme which reflects the calibre of artists performing on our stage.
 
  "In the face of developing competition it is so important for Edinburgh, as the capital city, to keep this beloved institution on the map and I believe we’re now poised to enter a truly dynamic era in The Queen’s Hall’s history.”

Theatre: Young Ones' Ade Edmondson and Nigel Planer back as off-kilter odd couple
2018-11-06 10:32:37
https://www.heraldscotland.com/news/17203920.theatre-vulcan-7-kings-edinburgh-three-stars/

  Theatre
 
  Vulcan 7
 
  King’s Theatre, Edinburgh
 
  Neil Cooper, Three stars
 
  An actor’s life can go in many ways. Adrian Edmondson and Nigel Planer’s co-written vehicle for themselves makes this abundantly clear in their portrayal of a couple of old luvs who left Rada at the same time and end up reluctantly reunited in Iceland on the set of the latest instalment of the hokey sci-fi franchise that gives the play its title.

Black Friday 2018: Our pick of top kids deals
2018-11-06 17:30:00
https://www.heraldscotland.com/life_style/17204926.black-friday-2018-our-pick-of-kids-deals/

*On some occasions, we earn revenue from content. This commercial content is compiled via expert opinion. Clicking in certain hyperlinks within this article will redirect you to a 3rd party
 
  Black Friday has been a shopping tradition in the USA for yonks, but in recent years we’ve started to see more and more of the same huge discounts right here in the UK – lucky us!
 
  Traditionally falling on the first Friday after the Thanksgiving holidays, Black Friday was started to kick off the Christmas season shopping with a bang. If you're not one to keep your finger on the pulse of the American holiday calendar, we’ll give you a hint– Black Friday 2018 is the 23rd of November.
 
Can Black Friday help get me sorted for Christmas?
 
  The Christmas season can get a little pricey for parents, but luckily Black Friday offers the chance to get a good chunk of your shopping done early and for less too. You’ll find discounts on everything from the biggest toys of the year to the weekly bits and bobs for the kids.

Jack Lowden on a Scottish film studio: It is getting embarrassing that Scotland does not have one
2018-11-06 07:24:37
https://www.heraldscotland.com/news/17202375.jack-lowden-on-a-scottish-film-studio-it-is-getting-embarrassing-that-scotland-does-not-have-one/

  THE leading Scottish actor Jack Lowden has said it is "embarrassing" that Scotland has yet to build a major film and TV studio.
 
  Wardpark Studios in Cumbernauld, used to film the Outlander series, is as yet the only purpose-built facility in the country.
 
  Lowden, who won a BAFTA Scotland award this weekend for his role in the Scottish-filmed thriller Calibre, said it was high time Scotland built a studio, and that the country had fallen behind the rest of the UK.
 
  He echoed similar sentiments expressed at the awards by other actors and members of the screen world.
 
READ MORE: New Scottish film studio plan to go out to tender

Scottish Mortgage reaps benefits of unlisted investments
2018-11-03 05:00:00
https://www.heraldscotland.com/business_hq/17198241.scottish-mortgage-reaps-benefits-of-unlisted-investments/

  THE TEAM behind Baillie Gifford’s £8 billion Scottish Mortgage Investment Trust has revealed the contribution unquoted companies have made to its long-term performance after reporting that the portfolio outflanked its benchmark index by almost eight percentage points in the six months to the end of September.
 
  Over the half-year period the trust made a net asset value total return of 19 per cent against growth of 11.3% in the FTSE All-World Index.
 
  Noting that managers James Anderson and Tom Slater caution against taking a short-term view of investment performance, trust chairman Fiona McBain said that in the longer period between June 2010 and September this year the trust’s unquoted investments had collectively returned 419%. The portfolio as a whole made a total return of 344% and the index returned 163% over the same period.
 
  Ms McBain said that Chinese e-commerce giant Alibaba, which listed on the New York Stock Exchange in 2014, was the biggest contributor overall, growing by over 1,000% since the trust first invested in it in 2012.
 
  While noting that taking positions in early-stage businesses has been a good source of returns for Scottish Mortgage, Ms McBain said that from the point of view of Mr Anderson and Mr Slater being able to develop relationships with the managers of these companies is of added benefit if they do go on to list.

North Sea oil firm hails transformational acquisitions
2018-11-06 07:27:02
https://www.heraldscotland.com/business_hq/17203471.north-sea-oil-firm-hails-transformational-acquisitions/

  SHARES in Serica Energy have surged eight per cent after the company continued its ambitious North Sea expansion drive with an acquisition which will bring it four million barrels reserves for an initial outlay of just £1m.
 
  The rise in the shares also followed news the company had moved closer to completing a related deal that was at risk of falling apart amid the stand off between President Trump and Iran.
 
Read more: Big North Sea deal in geopolitical crossfire
 
  London-based Serica said it had met the conditions imposed by US regulators regarding its plan to buy a 50 per cent stake in the Rhum gas field, which is half owned by the Iranian oil company.
 
  Serica is confident the measures will clear the way to it completing the acquisition of the interest in Rhum from BP, which it agreed in November last year.

Investment off Scotland fuels growth for oil and gas independent
2018-11-06 07:32:32
https://www.heraldscotland.com/business_hq/17203474.investment-off-scotland-fuels-growth-for-oil-and-gas-independent/

  WHILE times have been tough in the UK North Sea Serica Energy has come a long way after investing heavily in the area amid the fall out from the crude price plunge.
 
  London-based Serica focused on potentially transformational exploration in countries such as Namibia before buying a stake in the producing Erskine field in the North Sea in June 2014, at what proved to be the peak of the cycle.
 
Read more: North Sea oil firm hails transformational acquisitions
 
  The oil price went on to plunge from $115 per barrel to less than $30/bbl early in 2016. Serica carried on buying in the North Sea in the belief the resulting downturn created opportunities to acquire assets at attractive prices.
 
  With majors keen to release funds tied up in mature fields to invest in racier prospects it found no shortage of sellers.The company yesterday clinched its third acquisition in the space of three months.

Analysis: This grim picture should make UK Government sit up and take note (but it probably won't)
2018-11-06 05:18:21
https://www.heraldscotland.com/business_hq/17203496.analysis-this-grim-picture-should-make-uk-government-sit-up-and-take-note-but-it-probably-wont/

  THE latest economic surveys from the Chartered Institute of Procurement & Supply should be viewed by the UK Government as flashing warning lights although, on recent form, they will probably go unheeded by the Tories.
 
  As the clock ticks towards the Brexit date of March 29 next year, and fears of a no-deal scenario remain elevated, we should not be surprised activity and optimism in the UK private sector economy is being affected. The latest surveys of the services, manufacturing and construction sectors point to a quarterly UK growth rate of just 0.2 per cent. Even by the UK’s recent poor standards, that is grim.
 
  Optimism among UK services companies, about the prospects for increased business activity on a 12-month view, has deteriorated to its weakest since July 2016, the month after the Brexit vote.
 
  CIPS has highlighted the significant degree to which Brexit uncertainty is weighing on activity and optimism.
 
  And CIPS director Duncan Brock flagged services companies’ concerns “over the weakness in the UK and global economies which affected client confidence and consumer spending”.

FTSE-100 ends in the red but pound holds on to gains
2018-11-06 18:16:07
https://www.heraldscotland.com/business_hq/17205459.heading-here/

  The FTSE 100 ended in the red on Tuesday as fears over the standoff between Italy and the EU spooked traders across Europe.
 
  London's premier index closed down 63.16 points, or 0.89%, at 7,040.68.
 
  David Madden, market analyst at CMC, said: "Stock markets in Europe are largely lower as investors remain nervous about the political standoff between Italy and the EU over the budget.
 
  "The anti-establishment coalition in Rome wants to press ahead and boost spending, and in turn increase the budget deficit.
 
  "Brussels has already rejected the proposal, and neither side want to back down. Fears persist that this could trigger another round of the eurozone debt crisis. The strained trading relationship between the US and China is souring sentiment too."

Funds firm Baillie Gifford makes case for ‘actual’ investors
2018-11-06 07:24:20
https://www.heraldscotland.com/business_hq/17203501.funds-firm-baillie-gifford-makes-case-for-actual-investors/

  THE FUND house behind the £8 billion actively managed Scottish Mortgage Investment Trust has thrown down the gauntlet to other fund managers, challenging the industry to partake in “actual” rather than active or passive investment management.
 
Edinburgh-based Baillie Gifford, whose stable also includes the Scottish American Investment Company and Monks Investment Trust, said the industry owes it to investors to take bolder investment decisions and not be afraid of getting things wrong.
 
  The firm said its aim is to raise awareness among the public about what makes a successful active manager, with too many believing that simply being different from an index is enough to generate superior returns.
 
  Baillie Gifford partner Stuart Dunbar added that the firm believes “actual” managers should “direct capital into attractive company projects” with the aim of “creating wealth that society needs to fund our future obligations, such as investing in technological progress, medical breakthroughs or building better infrastructure”.
 
  “Defining active management as being different from an index is to start in the wrong place,” he said. “This is why most active investors fail to deliver returns that outperform passive investment strategies over the long term.”

Scots rocket firm aims for first private space launch
2018-11-06 05:00:00
https://www.heraldscotland.com/business_hq/17202874.scots-rocket-firm-aims-for-first-private-space-launch/

  A SCOTS rocket firm aims to make the "first totally private space launch in the UK" after the acquisition of a company with space flight-ready equipment developed.
 
Edinburgh-based Skyrora said it has completed the acquisition of the FARISpace project, led by Oxford-based rocket engineer Richard M Brown.
 
  It is understood Scotland is being considered as a base for the historic launch.
 
  FARISpace, already set up, is now being reconfigured in order to carry a larger payload under the name SkyHy.
 
  The British technology uses an engine that has been tested a number of times and uses the kind of powerful, reliable technology that can be transferred for Skyrora’s orbital requirements, capable of multiple restarts and orbital manoeuvrability.

Greene King's longstanding boss to step down next spring
2018-11-06 18:23:06
https://www.heraldscotland.com/business_hq/17205471.greene-kings-longstanding-boss-to-step-down-next-spring/

  The boss of pub group and Belhaven owner Greene King is to call time on a near 14-year tenure at the helm after announcing plans to step down next spring.
 
  Long-standing chief executive Rooney Anand will step down at the end of the group's financial year, on April 30 2019.
 
  Greene King said the process to appoint a successor is "well advanced", with a further announcement expected early in the new year.
 
  Mr Anand said: "It has been a great privilege to lead Greene King for nearly 14 years and to serve as a director for 18 years.
 
  He added: "With a strong team and business culture firmly in place, the time is now right for me to hand over the baton."

93 store heifers sell in Newton Stewart to a top of 212p per kg
2018-11-06 12:09:14
https://www.heraldscotland.com/business_hq/17204230.93-store-heifers-sell-in-newton-stewart-to-a-top-of-212p-per-kg/

  Messrs Craig Wilson Ltd sold 93 store heifers in Newton Stewart on Friday to a top of 212p per kg and an average of 183.1p, while 75 store bullocks peaked at 250p and levelled at 201.6p.
 
  Wallets Marts had 137 head of store, OTM and breeding cattle forward in Castle Douglas yesterday when store heifers sold to205.1p and averaged 190p, while store bullocks peaked at 222.9p and levelled at 193.1p.
 
  Messrs Craig Wilson Ltd sold 1197 prime lambs at Ayr yesterday to a top of £86 per head and 193.8p per kg to average 160.4p (-1.9p on the week).
 
  A plainer show of cast sheep saw 280 heavy cast ewes sell to £137.50 and averaged £70.41, while 460 light/export-type ewes peaked at £70 and levelled at £32.33.
 
  Harrison & Hetherington Ltd sold 42 prime heifers in St Boswells yesterday to a top of 248p and an average of 215p (-6p), while 40 prime bullocks peaked at 240p and levelled at 212p (+3p).

80 new jobs as TravelNest invests £7m in Edinburgh operation
2018-11-06 05:00:00
https://www.heraldscotland.com/business_hq/17202658.80-new-jobs-as-travelnest-invests-7m-in-edinburgh-operation/

  Travel technology website TravelNest is to create more than 80 jobs at its Edinburgh base under a £7 million investment push, writes Brian Donnelly.
 
  The firm, set up by Doug Stephenson, 24, just over two years ago, has received £2.3m in new R&D and regional selective assistance grant cash from Scottish Enterprise as a contribution towards the £7m to "accelerate its growth".
 
  Michael Cannon, of Scottish Enterprise, said the website is a "fantastic example of a young, innovative company with global ambitions".
 
  He added: "This news is further evidence of Edinburgh’s credentials as an attractive location for technology businesses, with the city named the most active tech innovation community outside of London in the UK Tech Innovation Index.
 
  “We look forward to helping TravelNest scale up and create more inclusive, sustainable jobs for Scotland’s people.”

Global Sustainability Trust launches £200m share offering to investors
2018-11-06 08:29:54
https://www.heraldscotland.com/business_hq/17203477.global-sustainability-trust-launches-200m-share-offering-to-investors/
 
  THE Global Sustainability Trust managed by Standard Life Aberdeen has set out to raise £200 million as it aims to harness the wealth of the private sector to meet social goals such as ending poverty. The trust has launched an initial public offering in which it is targeting an issue of 200 million ordinary shares at a price of 100p each. It aims to deliver attractive financial returns while achieving measurable positive environmental and social impacts. The deadline for the receipt of application forms is 1pm on December 11. The results of the initial issue will be announced on December 13. Dealing in the shares on the main market of the London Stock Exchange will commence on December 17.

Stuart Patrick: Full recovery for Sauchiehall Street is some way off
2018-11-06 08:31:57
https://www.heraldscotland.com/business_hq/17203492.stuart-patrick-full-recovery-for-sauchiehall-street-is-some-way-off/

  Five months on from the fire that destroyed the Mackintosh building, a long road of recovery still lies ahead for the businesses on Sauchiehall Street. The scale of the impact was laid out starkly by business owners at the most recent Sauchiehall Street Task Force meeting. Many of the businesses have not yet reopened and for those that have turnover is sharply down on normal patterns.
 
  Work on stabilising the Mackintosh building was extremely complex and necessarily drawn out. That means that only very recently has work begun on assessing the damage to the O2 ABC complex upon which many of the local businesses depended for attracting trade.
 
  One of the more unfortunate features has been the fire’s occurrence right in the middle of the building contract for the transformation of the street into Glasgow’s first Avenue. That project will radically improve the street’s look and feel but involves redesign, ripping up and relaying virtually the entire surface. The building contractors’ flexibility in the aftermath of the fire was widely praised but combining the impact of that project with a major incident has been the perfect storm.
 
  The businesses on the street are unsurprisingly dismayed that normal trade has not yet returned. Thankfully the Avenue project is ahead of schedule and should be very largely complete before the end of the year. But by then many of the businesses will have struggled on through seven months of pain and very sadly some will not survive.
 
  There is appreciation for the Council officials who have been on the street offering advice and tackling the practical issues but frustration it has taken so long to clarify the timelines for dealing with damaged buildings. Businesses welcomed the Scottish Government’s financial support and are very keen to draw on the full fund offered to help the street recover. They are wondering why the UK Government has not yet followed through on the promises of support made immediately after the fire.

Aberdeen airport appoints Steve Szalay as new MD
2018-11-06 08:31:16
https://www.heraldscotland.com/business_hq/17202401.aberdeen-airport-appoints-steve-szalay-as-new-md/

Aberdeen International Airport has appointed Steve Szalay as its new managing director.
 
  Mr Szalay will work closely with Derek Provan, chief executive of Aberdeen’s parent company AGS. The appointment comes after Carol Benzie stood down as managing director earlier this year.
 
  A graduate of the Royal Military Academy Sandhurst, Mr Szalay has held a series of senior executive roles in the aviation sector including with UK airline Jet2.com, and across a number of airports including Heathrow and Gatwick.
 
  He will take up his position at Aberdeen, currently in the final phase of a £20 million revamp, on Tuesday, November 13.
 
  AGS Airports Limited is jointly held by Ferrovial - via Faero UK Limited - and AGS Airports International Sarl, a Luxembourg company that is majority owned by Macquarie European Infrastructure Fund 4.

