91 News are collected
Sir Billy Connolly airs fears over rising fascism and nationalist 'flag-waving'
2018-12-03 08:31:43
https://www.heraldscotland.com/news/17271499.sir-billy-connolly-airs-fears-over-rising-fascism-and-nationalist-flag-waving/

  Sir Billy Connolly has spoken of his fear that rising “fascism” could lead to another world war.
 
  The 76-year-old Glasgow comedian, who lives in Florida, said the rise of Donald Trump had concerned him.
 
  READ MORE: Sir Billy Connolly reveals he would like to die in Scotland 
 
  Sir Billy has also branded Brexit a “con-job” and stated his opposition to Scottish nationalism, refusing to become involved in flag-waving.
 
  Speaking to Radio Times magazine, the comedian, actor and artist shared his fears about trends in international politics, as well as the current US president.
**
No-deal Brexit 'could have substantial financial implications' for the NHS in Scotland
2018-12-03 14:28:39
https://www.heraldscotland.com/news/17272589.no-deal-brexit-could-have-substantial-financial-implications-for-the-nhs-in-scotland/

  A no-deal Brexit could have "substantial financial implications" for the NHS in Scotland, and could also see some patients forced to wait longer for important medication, a new report has warned.
 
  If tariffs are put in place after the UK quits the European Union, life sciences firms fear the cost of drugs could rise if products cross the UK/EU border multiple times during the manufacturing process.
 
  A new paper, produced for IQVIA and Q2 Solutions - who between them employ 940 people in the sector in Scotland - is now calling on the UK Government to ensure the free movement of medicines and biological samples can continue post Brexit.
 
  READ MORE: NHS drug hailed as 'incredible breakthrough' in cancer fight 
 
  Speaking as it was launched at Q2 Solutions laboratory at the Alba Campus in Livingston, West Lothian, vice president Tony Brown warned: "A no-deal Brexit, reverting to WTO (World Trade Organisation) rules, could have significant financial implications for the NHS in Scotland, and the wider life sciences sector.
**
Theresa May signals she will not quit if she loses key Commons vote on Brexit Plan
2018-12-03 15:09:23
https://www.heraldscotland.com/news/17272365.theresa-may-signals-she-will-not-quit-if-she-loses-key-commons-vote-on-brexit-plan/

Theresa May has signalled that she will not quit if she loses next week’s key Commons vote on Brexit as leaked legal papers suggested that if the UK entered the so-called “backstop,” it would be difficult to strike trade deals with non-EU countries, including America.
 
  Appearing on ITV’s This Morning, the Prime Minister pushed back after being asked if she would still be in No 10 should MPs reject her Brexit Plan next week, declaring: “I will still have a job in two weeks’ time.
 
  READ MORE: Sir Ian Wood: Theresa May's Brexit deal is "workable" 
 
  “And my job is making sure that we do what the public ask us to; we leave the EU but we do it in a way that’s good for them.”
 

**
Scottish Labour policy jobs in London revive 'branch office' row
2018-12-03 05:00:00
https://www.heraldscotland.com/news/17270992.scottish-labour-policy-jobs-in-london-revive-branch-office-row/

  JOHN McDonnell has been branded “clueless” after insisting Scottish Labour is no longer a branch office at the same time the party is advertising key Scottish policy jobs in London.
 
  The Shadow Chancellor, who visits north of the border this week, insisted on Saturday that Scottish Labour was not a “sub-office of London” and would make its own decisions.
 
  However the Herald can reveal UK Labour is currently recruiting a “Constitutional Policy Officer (Scotland)” and a “Policy Development Officer (Scotland)”, both based in Westminster.
 
  Both positions involve developing policy “for the Labour party in Scotland”, while the constitutional officer’s job also involves researching the impact of Government policies for Scotland.
 
  Applications for the 12-month contracts, which come with a salary of £35,995 “inclusive of London weighting”, close next week.
**
Worsening weather will leave Scots islanders marooned
2018-12-03 13:23:15
https://www.heraldscotland.com/news/17271203.worsening-weather-will-leave-scots-islanders-marooned/

  Climate change will leave more and more people marooned on Scotland’s islands, industry leaders warned last night.
 
  State-owned CalMac - the nation's main ferry operator - said its skippers were now facing longer and increasingly frequent storms amid what scientists say are dramatic changes in the wind systems over the North Atlantic.
 
  The company has always had to call off some of its lifeline services because of bad weather - especially in the winter - but has warned passengers to expect more disruption this coming year and in the future
 
  CalMac’s Captain Mark Thomson said: “As a major ferry operator delivering lifeline services in areas that experience some of the most challenging environmental conditions in Europe, we are increasingly aware of significant changes in prevailing weather conditions and their impact on our ability to deliver reliable services.
 

**
Nicola Sturgeon to warn Theresa May her Brexit deal is "doomed"
2018-12-03 08:52:03
https://www.heraldscotland.com/news/17271371.nicola-sturgeon-to-warn-theresa-may-her-brexit-deal-is-doomed/

Nicola Sturgeon will today warn Theresa May her Brexit deal is doomed and she must look to a Plan B as the UK Government faces a constitutional showdown with Parliament.
 
  The First Minister will also speak to opposition parties at Westminster about working together to reject the Prime Minister’s deal in the meaningful vote on December 11.
 
  Ms Sturgeon, en route to UN climate change talks in Poland, will argue for a suspension of the Article 50 withdrawal process in order to pause Brexit and find “a better way forward”.
 
  READ MORE: Marianne Taylor: Why Nicola Sturgeon should steer clear of this phony TV debate 
 
  However, Mrs May will try to shore up support for her deal by telling MPs it will allow Britain to strike "ambitious” trade deals around the world.
**
Brexiteers call for a place  in TV debate between Theresa May and Jeremy Corbyn
2018-12-03 12:22:50
https://www.heraldscotland.com/news/17272288.brexiteers-demand-a-representative-in-tv-debate-between-theresa-may-and-jeremy-corbyn/

  Pro-Brexit Conservatives have lashed out at a planned TV debate on Brexit, due to take place in less than a week’s time.
 
Conservative Brexit supporters and the Liberal Democrats have written demanding that they are included in the debate, stating that the concept “breaches the concept of impartiality” unless a prominent Brexiteer is also represented. 
 
Boris Johnson, Dominic Raab and other former Cabinet ministers, including Iain Duncan Smith and Jacob Rees-Mogg, wrote to the BBC's chairman Sir David Clementi to complain that the Brexit people voted for would be "nowhere represented" in a debate between Jeremy Corbyn and Theresa May. 
 
  READ MORE: Nicola Sturgeon brands Brexit TV debate "an absolute travesty of democracy" 
 
  As reported by the Daily Telegraph, the letter states that a debate between the prime minister and Labour leader would “do nothing to illuminate the real issues at stake” as both were on the same side during the referendum. 
**
David Mundell to tell banks that Brexit deal offers 'clarity'
2018-12-03 08:52:30
https://www.heraldscotland.com/news/17270956.david-mundell-to-tell-banks-that-brexit-deal-offers-clarity/

  DAVID Mundell will today attempt to persuade Scottish finance leaders that the government’s Brexit plan is a “major step forward in clarity” despite the turmoil it has generated.
 
  The Scottish Secretary will try to sell Theresa May’s deal at a briefing for Scotland’s £9bn financial services sector in Edinburgh.
 
  READ MORE: David Mundell faces cross-party calls to resign 
 
  Among the employers taking part will be RBS, Tesco Bank, Barclays, Lloyds Banking Group, KPMG, Pheonix Group, and CYBG, which owns Clydesdale Bank, Yorkshire Bank and Virgin Money UK.
 

**
Marianne Taylor: Why Nicola Sturgeon should steer clear of this phony TV debate
2018-12-03 10:21:25
https://www.heraldscotland.com/news/17270801.marianne-taylor-why-nicola-sturgeon-should-steer-clear-of-this-phony-tv-debate/

  IN these strange, dispiriting, discombobulating times, I find myself relying on simple pleasures to get me through. You know the sort of thing. Raking leaves. Making soup. Cat videos on You Tube. Running through fields of wheat.
 
  I’ve also discovered more comfort than I ever thought possible in Sunday night telly, with the viewing figures suggesting many, if not most of us, have also come to rely on this weekly fix of what I’ve come to call tranquiliser television.
 
  I’ve stuck with BBC One since Bodyguard and The Cry, happily settling over the last few weeks into a comfortable routine that comprises Doctor Who, the Strictly results show, David Attenborough’s Dynasties and The Big Drama, perhaps because aliens, a verbal pasting from Craig Revel Horwood and watching baby wild animals struggle to survive are all still much more pleasurable than contemplating Brexit.
 
  And this is why I must object in the strongest terms to any plan that involves Theresa May and Jeremy Corbyn interrupting my precious Sunday night viewing with a Brexit debate.
 
  Of course, since the details are still being worked out/argued over behind the scenes by lackeys, it’s possible ITV will host proceedings, though I can’t imagine fans of I’m A Celebrity…Get Me Out of Here!, forced to forsake their usual slebs so the PM and the Leader of Her Majesty’s Opposition can publicly humiliate themselves in what will would surely be the dullest Bushtucker trial of all time, will be best pleased either.
**
Theresa May's adviser warned Prime Minster that Northern Ireland "backstop" was a "bad outcome" for Britain
2018-12-03 10:44:48
https://www.heraldscotland.com/news/17271778.theresa-mays-adviser-warned-prime-minster-that-northern-ireland-backstop-was-a-bad-outcome-for-britain/

Theresa May's chief Brexit adviser secretly warned her that the Northern Ireland "backstop" agreed in her deal with Brussels was a "bad outcome" for Britain, it has been reported.
 
  In a letter to the Prime Minister, Oliver Robbins said the backstop, intended to prevent the return of a hard border with the Republic, would mean the imposition of regulatory checks between the North and the rest of the UK, according to The Daily Telegraph.
 
  The disclosure will add to the pressure on the Prime Minister at the start of another difficult week as she battles to save her Brexit deal ahead of the crucial Commons vote on December 11.
 
  READ MORE: Sir Ian Wood: Theresa May's Brexit deal is "workable" 
 
  The paper, which said it had been passed details of the letter by a "concerned minister", said Mr Robbins had advised there was no legal "guarantee" Britain would be able to exit the backstop, potentially leaving the UK tied to EU customs arrangements.
**
Firefighters called to Edinburgh Zoo to rescue a rhino
2018-12-03 12:54:41
https://www.heraldscotland.com/news/17271479.firefighters-called-to-edinburgh-zoo-to-rescue-a-rhino/

  Firefighters have used cutting gear to free a rhino stuck in a tyre for more than an hour.
 
  Keepers at Edinburgh Zoo called out the Scottish Fire and Rescue Service as their "last hope" after failing to free the juvenile male rhino, which had its head and leg through the tyre.
 
  Firefighters from Sighthill attended at around 5.45pm on Sunday and used specialised cutting equipment to free the stricken animal.
 
  READ MORE: Hundreds of Chinese lanterns light up Edinburgh Zoo 
 
  A spokeswoman for the fire service said: "Crews from sighthill fire station attended and freed the rhino using e-hydraulic cutting equipment.
**
Scotrail to end popular Kids Go Free scheme
2018-12-03 11:16:04
https://www.heraldscotland.com/news/17272004.scotrail-confirm-they-are-ending-free-rail-travel-for-children-after-christmas/

Scotrail have confirmed they are ending their free rail travel for children right after the festive period.
 
  The popular ‘Kids Go Free’ scheme, which enables an adult able to take up to two children for free on return journeys, will end in the New Year as part of a rail fare rise.
 
  READ MORE: Travel chaos as ScotRail staff shortage expected to cause disruption until end of the day 
 
  Each child will be charged £1 from next year, meaning an adult who travels once a week with two children will be more than £100 worse off after the scheme is cancelled.
 
  Scottish Labour slammed the move, calling the fare rise a “rip-off.””
**
Bodies of missing Scots couple found four days after car washed up on beach
2018-12-03 10:32:29
https://www.heraldscotland.com/news/17271742.bodies-of-missing-scots-couple-found-four-days-after-car-washed-up-on-beach/

  Two bodies found on a shoreline have been confirmed as those of a missing Scottish couple whose car was found washed up on a beach in bad weather.
 
  Police and coastguard rescue teams launched a major search when Susan and James Kenneavy's Ford Kuga was found empty on Drummore beach near Stranraer in south-west Scotland on Thursday morning.
 
  Heavy rain had led to flooding on the Drummore coastal road the previous day.
 
  Police Scotland said the body of a woman was found at the edge of the water in Port William, Newton Stewart, at around 8.15am on Saturday.
 
  READ MORE: Police hunt for couple after car found on beach 
**
Rangers chairman commits to timetable of deadlines to make court-ordered shares bid after contempt case
2018-12-03 16:43:08
https://www.heraldscotland.com/news/17273064.rangers-chairman-commits-to-timetable-of-deadlines-to-make-court-ordered-shares-bid-after-contempt-case/

  RANGERS have published the legal agreement made by chairman Dave King which commits him to a timetable of undertakings before making a court-ordered shares bid by a deadline of January 25, next year.
 
  The 63-year-old businessman who had been defending claims of contempt of court over his failure so far to make the bid has agreed to meet a series of deadlines before finally fulfilling his pledge to make a bid to existing shareholders at 20p a share.
 
  It comes after the contempt case in front of Lady Wolfe was paused after the Rangers chief said he was now “100%” committed to making the multi-million pound offer which is required under takeover rules.
 
  The proceedings arose out of Mr King's failure to comply with a court order in December to make a bid for most of the club's shares after a ruling he acted with other shareholders to take control in 2015, ousting a board of directors said to be allied to Sports Direct founder Mike Ashley.
 

**
Inquest hears details of Scottish serial killer Robert Black's last days
2018-12-03 13:33:43
https://www.heraldscotland.com/news/17272448.inquest-hears-details-of-scottish-serial-killer-robert-blacks-last-days/

  Serial killer Robert Black was a heavy smoker with high cholesterol when he died, a lawyer has told his inquest.
 
  Black, 68, murdered four schoolgirls between 1981 and 1986.
 
  READ MORE: Relatives of serial child killer Robert Black yet to come forward ahead of inquest 
 
  He was a Scottish delivery driver who ranged across the UK in the 1980s and his victims were often found hundreds of miles from where they were abducted.
 
  His inquest is being held in the same courtroom in Armagh city where he was convicted of the murder of Northern Irish schoolgirl Jennifer Cardy in 2011.
**
New campaign launched to ensure every child in Glasgow gets a gift this Christmas
2018-12-03 15:52:37
https://www.heraldscotland.com/news/17272878.new-campaign-launched-to-ensure-every-child-in-glasgow-gets-a-gift-this-christmas/

  A new campaign has been launched in a bid to ensure every child in Scotland's largest city gets a gift this Christmas.
 
MSP Anas Sarwar has teamed up with charity Children 1st and Glasgow Women's Aid to organise the annual appeal.
 
  Toy stores including the Entertainer and the Lego Store have already agreed to donate items, along with the cash4Kids charity, Asda, and bosses at the St Enoch Centre and Forge Shopping Centre.
 
  READ MORE: Charity provides gifts for deprived children​
 
  And Mr Sarwar said they were hoping to top the 500 toys and vouchers donated to the Glasgow Cares toy bank appeal, as he appealed to big-hearted Scots to help out.
**
Universal Credit contributing to £1.5 million in council house rent arrears claims East Ayrshire councillor
2018-12-03 15:03:28
https://www.heraldscotland.com/news/17272550.universal-credit-contributing-to-15-million-in-council-house-rent-arrears-claims-east-ayrshire-councillor/

  Universal credit has pushed council house tenants into nearly £1.5 million of rent arrears in East Ayrshire, a councillor has claimed.
 
  Council tenant overdue rent stood at  £1.484 million between September 17 to October 14 this year.
 
  About seven per cent of tenants had unpaid rent during that time – up from five per cent last year.
 
  It has been claimed that people are falling behind in their rent while they await their first Universal Credit payment. 
 
  READ MORE: Call to halt 'disastrous' Universal Credit roll-out as millions face losing £50 a week 
**
I have changed and I know I’ve changed: Nick Nairn on ditching the diva act
2018-12-03 08:17:23
https://www.heraldscotland.com/news/17271374.i-have-changed-and-i-know-ive-changed-nick-nairn-on-ditching-the-diva-act/

  TURNING 60 in January holds no fears for Nick Nairn – or, as I tend to think of him, the Peter Pan of the culinary world. Turns out he has other fish to fry than fretting and, with typical enthusiasm, he can’t wait to get started.
 
  Uppermost in his mind is kickstarting his Cook School at Port of Menteith, near Aberfoyle, following the painful experience of calling time on his Aberdeen venture. He closed his Cook School there in June, and Nick’s Pizza Bar and Café, which had opened in 2016, in July. His focus now is on maximising the long-established asset that is his fabulous purpose-built building on the banks of the famous lake. Pizza at the Port, where customers’ orders are made by the chef himself, has already proved very popular.
 
  “Coming out of Aberdeen was a tumultuous, difficult period, just horrible,” he says. “But it was also a blessing because we’ve realised what we’ve had here for so many years but have perhaps under-used because we had so many other things on the go.”
 
  READ MORE: Man arrested over attack on Scots celebrity chef Nick Nairn 
 
  His multi-million-pound Aberdeen cook school, which opened in 2012, was very successful, but ran into trouble when in 2016 the price of a barrel of oil went from $100 to $30 almost overnight and the oil and gas companies stopped spending money, and corporate business dried up. “Our Cook School income halved from £1.1m to under £600,000 in three months,” says Nairn. “Yet labour costs, coupled with running costs, remained the same. It became unviable. And we couldn’t get the pizza business to work on the same commercial terms.” His association with Native, the restaurant in the Hilton Garden Inn, Aberdeen, ended three years ago but he remains closely involved with Kailyard restaurant at the Hilton Dunblane Hydro.
**
RBS faces whistleblowing allegations over ‘cronyism’
2018-12-03 08:05:44
https://www.heraldscotland.com/news/17271357.rbs-faces-whistleblowing-allegations-over-cronyism/

  Royal Bank of Scotland is investigating allegations of cronyism after a whistleblower claimed the lender appointed a man to a top role on the basis that he is the friend of a senior staff member.
 
  A source within the bank told the Press Association that RBS is looking into complaints that a man appointed team leader on the troubled Amethyst project does not have the requisite qualifications or experience for the role, and was given the job solely because he was friends with a head honcho.
 
  The move is said to have sparked fury among colleagues, with one telling PA on condition of anonymity: "You would have at least Level 4 Financial Planning Diploma Certificate to be a team leader, if not level 6.
 
  "The fact is he didn't even know what an OEIC (open-ended investment company) was when he started the project.
 
  "You could not expect to be a team leader without having this knowledge. There were times when his team wanted to challenge decisions but he had no knowledge and couldn't."
**
Lost Mary Queen of Scots drama by Whisky Galore director airs after 50 years
2018-12-03 05:01:28
https://www.heraldscotland.com/news/17271292.lost-mary-queen-of-scots-drama-by-whisky-galore-director-airs-after-50-years/

  HE was the Scots director behind some of the quirkiest and best-loved films of the post-war period, including Whisky Galore and The Ladykillers.
 
  But despite a glittering career spanning London and Hollywood, the late Alexander Mackendrick never succeeded in getting his passion project about Scotland's most famous monarch off the ground.
 
  Half a century after being sidelined, however, Mary Queen of Scots will be given its world premiere on BBC Radio 4 this Saturday, directed by award-winning Edinburgh-based filmmaker Hope Dickson Leach and narrated by Glenda Jackson.
 
  The title role in the drama is played by rising star Ellie Bamber - girlfriend of Renfrewshire-born Bodyguard star Richard Madden – alongside a host of Scots acting talent that includes Bill Paterson, Mark Bonnar, Kevin Guthrie and Emun Elliot.
 
  The action takes place over a tumultuous 15 months as the young Scottish Queen, isolated, pregnant and betrayed, must fight for her place and try to overcome the warring and manipulative men that surround her.
**
Three men hospitalised after masked thugs attack in weekend crime spree in Glasgow
2018-12-03 15:29:50
https://www.heraldscotland.com/news/17272798.three-men-hospitalised-after-masked-thugs-attack-in-weekend-crime-spree-in-glasgow/

  Three men needed hospital treatment after they were attacked by masked men armed with blades in separate incidents which police believe are linked.
 
  One man remains in hospital after he suffered serious injuries, with police treating the attack as attempted murder.
 
  Detectives believe the assaults were targeted and are appealing for information about the incidents which took place in north Glasgow over the weekend.
 
  The first incident happened around 8.25pm on Friday when a 38-year-old man was attacked by four masked men armed with bladed weapons outside 168 Dykemuir Street.
 
  He was seriously injured and was taken to Glasgow Royal Infirmary and released after treatment.
**
Sir Ian Wood: Theresa May's Brexit deal is "workable"
2018-12-03 09:51:48
https://www.heraldscotland.com/news/17271644.sir-ian-wood-theresa-mays-brexit-deal-is-workable/

  Leading businessman Sir Ian Wood has said Theresa May's Brexit deal is "workable" and is better than the current situation with Europe.  
 
  He said that the UK cannot afford to leave without a deal and that the plan now needs to "move ahead."
 
  READ MORE: Nicola Sturgeon to warn Theresa May her Brexit deal is "doomed" 
 
  The businessman said that Brexit could also bring benefits to Scottish fishing.
  Sir Ian, who made his name developing the Wood Group into a global oilfield services company, said that dealing with Brexit had been an "extraordinarily difficult task."
 
  He told BBC Good Morning Scotland: "There is not a solution which anyone, or I suspect even more than 50% of people, would really say 'that's a really good solution'.
**
Travel chaos as ScotRail staff shortage expected to cause disruption until end of the day
2018-12-03 09:33:44
https://www.heraldscotland.com/news/17271587.travel-chaos-as-scotrail-staff-shortage-expected-to-cause-disruption-until-end-of-the-day/

  A staff shortage will see disruption to services across Glasgow until the end of the day with a number of services affected. 
 
  Services are being cancelled between Glasgow Queen Street and Edinburgh via Falkirk High with a number of other routes also facing alterations. 
 
  A statement on the ScotRail website reads: “Due to a shortage of train crew fewer trains are able to run. Disruption is expected until the end of the day.”
 
  Passengers are being advised to check their journey before travelling.
 
  For further information, speak to staff on the help point, in person or tweet ScotRail at @ScotRail.
**
Warning over future of music exams as schools face new fees
2018-12-03 05:00:00
https://www.heraldscotland.com/news/17270798.warning-over-future-of-music-exams-as-schools-face-new-fees/

  SCHOOLS are being hit with new charges of up to £38,000 a year to pay for the cost of preparing senior pupils for music exams.
 
  Midlothian Council is the first local authority in Scotland to pass on the cost of tuition for music qualifications such as Higher and Advanced Higher, rather than funding it from central budgets.
 
  Campaigners, who fear other councils will adopt the tactic, said the move could see a decline in the number of pupils sitting music exams.
 
  And they warned it would also restrict choice - with pupils having to select instruments commonly taught in school, such as percussion or guitar, rather than those requiring expert outside input such as strings, woodwind or brass.
 
  The row comes as the Scottish Parliament’s education committee investigates the impact of rising fees for music tuition in primary and secondary schools across Scotland.
**
Weather warning for ice issued for much of Scotland as temperatures get set to plummet
2018-12-03 09:04:37
https://www.heraldscotland.com/news/17271536.weather-warning-issued-for-much-of-scotland-as-temperatures-get-set-to-plummet/

Scotland has been warned to brace itself for the first serious blast of winter with up to four inches of snow expected to strike parts of the country by the middle of the week.
 
  Forecasters from the Met Office say the chill begins with a yellow weather warning for ice that will be in place between 3am and 10pm today.
 
  READ MORE: Worsening weather will leave Scots islanders marooned 
 
  Drivers have been warned there may be icy stretches in most parts of Scotland from early morning in Central, Strathclyde, Tayside, Fife, Grampian, Highlands, South West Scotland and Lothian Borders.
 
  Clear skies and calm conditions mean temperatures will fall below freezing, making driving conditions difficult during the morning rush-hour.
**
Hospitals reliant on 'super nurses' to take the strain faced by the NHS
2018-12-03 08:20:48
https://www.heraldscotland.com/news/17271361.rise-and-rise-of-the-modern-day-super-nurse/

  HOSPITALS are relying more and more on ‘super nurses’ to take the strain as the NHS struggles to cope with increasing demands from an ageing population.
 
  A decade after the first super nurses were introduced, a second generation is helping the health service meet the challenges of modern patient care.
 
  As a result, the traditional starchy image of nursing is giving way to that of a highly qualified professional with medical skills once confined to doctors.
 
  Advances in medical technology handled by nurses in everyday practice mean that training needs to be far more sophisticated.
 
  READ MORE: Hospital bed shortages put lives of 3,300 patients at risk
**
Couple get legal aid for £600k split
2018-12-03 05:09:14
https://www.heraldscotland.com/news/17271351.couple-get-legal-aid-for-600k-split/

  A COUPLE fighting over their £11,000 Aga cooker as part of a £600,000 divorce battle were both given legal aid funding.
 
  Brian Douglas, 63, and Shirley Douglas, 51, were given taxpayers’ money to battle over the contents of their estate, including a £23,000 diamond ring and several luxury watches.
 
  And Mrs Douglas – formerly in charge of a group of stores with a multi-million pounds turnover – was branded a liar and a thief by the sheriff who heard the case.
 
  Both she and Mr Douglas, the former head of Vision Express Europe, were berated by Sheriff Simon Collins for the quality of evidence they gave at Perth Sheriff Court.
 
  Sheriff Collins presided over the acrimonious divorce battle, which also heard claims about an oil painting of a Highland cow called Archie.
**
Christmas toy appeal for Glasgow's most vulnerable kids
2018-12-03 14:40:00
https://www.heraldscotland.com/news/17272617.christmas-toy-appeal-for-glasgows-most-vulnerable-kids/

  A CAMPAIGN to guarantee a Christmas toy for every child in Glasgow has been launched to help families struggling with poverty and domestic violence.
 
  The Glasgow Cares toy bank is organised by Labour MSP Anas Sarwar in conjunction with Children 1st and Glasgow Women’s Aid.
 
  The appeal last year distributed more than 500 donated toys and gift vouchers to children who might not have received a present otherwise, including some living in refuges.
 
  The toy drive has already received some donations from stores and malls, but is now asking for donations from the general public to ensure no child misses out.
 
  Susan Jack, of Glasgow Women’s Aid, added: “Christmas can be a very difficult time of the year and this is particularly true for families in refuge or living with domestic abuse.
**
Review: Wendy and Peter Pan, Lyceum, Edinburgh, Five stars
2018-12-03 14:15:11
https://www.heraldscotland.com/news/17272526.review-wendy-and-peter-pan-lyceum-edinburgh-five-stars/

  There is an emotional ache at the heart of Ella Hickson’s reimagining of J.M. Barrie’s much-loved children’s story, brought to vivid life by director Eleanor Rhode on Max Johns’ expansive set that opens out from children’s bedroom to lost boys’ hideout and pirate’s lair. It’s an ache of wonder and loss that treads the shadow-line between the two in a world where growing up isn’t always easy.
 
  None of the play’s over-riding seriousness takes away from the transformative sense of joy that runs through a show that makes Isobel McArthur’s Wendy much more than Peter Pan’s sidekick once she and her brothers fly off to Never Land where she’s meant to play mum. As she learns from her sisters-in-arms Tink and Tiger Lily how to hang tough, Wendy also comes to terms with the death of her brother Tom, whose presence gives the show added depths.
 
  This is seen through the transformation of the family home as a house of laughter to one of pain. It’s there too when Sally Reid’s fairy-winged force of nature Tink appears to have breathed her last. When Bonnie Baddoo’s fearless Tiger Lily is killed without comment, both incidents are as poignant as any Shakespearian youth who becomes the first of the gang to die.
 
  Ziggy Heath’s Peter is a terminal adolescent and unreconstructed thrill-seeker with no sense of everyday responsibilities who gets by on charisma alone. As he spars with Captain Hook, played by Gyuri Sarossy as an increasingly past-it punk, it’s as if he’s squaring up to his own delayed mortality.
 
  Hickson not only empowers Wendy, but allows her younger brother Michael to take a leap into the dressing up box to explore his own sense of self. Underscored by Michael John McCarthy’s moving score and given a starry beauty by Mark Doubleday’s lighting, the result is an exquisite fantasia about healing, about growing up enough to keep the child within alive, and about learning to let go enough to be able to fly in every way.
**
Family demand answers over mum's death after mesh operation
2018-12-03 05:10:01
https://www.heraldscotland.com/news/17271359.family-want-answers-as-mesh-cited-in-mothers-death/

  The family of the first woman in Scotland to have mesh implant listed as an underlying cause of death are demanding answers from the NHS.
 
  Great-grandmother Eileen Baxter, 75, died in August from multiple organ failure at the Royal Infirmary of Edinburgh.
 
  She had been fitted with sacrocolopexy mesh repair – an implant to fix a pelvic organ prolapse five years earlier – but a week before her death suffered internal bleeding, sickness and diarrhoea.
 
  Mrs Baxter’s grieving children, Mark and Audrey Baxter, have met with senior politicians to discuss the circumstances surrounding their mother’s death.
 
  It led to the Scottish Government announcing a halt in the use of transvaginal mesh, with only a limited number of operations to be considered for women already on the waiting list.
**
SPONSORED CONTENT: Ten ways to give back this Christmas
2018-12-03 16:37:40
https://www.heraldscotland.com/news/17272832.ten-ways-to-give-back-this-christmas/

  Christmas is a time to give back and spend with loved ones, so it's unsurprising many of us look for ways to support charities and help those in need. 
 
  There are many deserving charitable organisations in Scotland who depend on the generosity of volunteers and fundraisers to continue delivering their work. Whether you can donate your time, send money or goods, or spread the word about their work, there are lots of way to help charities over the festive season. 
 
  Here we bring 10 organisations in need of your support ahead of the festivities. 
 
Turning Point
 
  By this Christmas, Turning Point Scotland will have provided support to more than 1,500 people across Glasgow experiencing homelessness this year - from people in crisis through to residential support, housing support and sustaining their tenancy.
**
Theresa May urges Tory MPs to 'hold their nerve and back Brexit'
2018-12-03 13:05:15
https://www.heraldscotland.com/news/17272349.theresa-may-urges-tory-mps-to-hold-their-nerve-and-back-brexit/

Theresa May has told Tory MPs to "hold their nerve" and back her Brexit deal.
 
  The Prime Minister insisted she would still have a job in two weeks' time as she faces a crunch Commons vote on her EU withdrawal agreement on December 11.
 
  READ MORE: Brexiteers demand a representative in TV debate between Theresa May and Jeremy Corbyn
 
  Mrs May told ITV's This Morning: "At the end of the line it is, I think, about holding our nerve and getting this over the line so we can deliver on Brexit and people can have that better future."
 
  Pressed on whether she would resign if the Commons rejected her Brexit deal next week, Mrs May said: "I'm focusing on, you know, getting that vote, and getting the vote over the line.
**
MSPs back reforms to personal injury compensation
2018-12-03 05:00:00
https://www.heraldscotland.com/news/17271073.msps-back-reforms-to-personal-injury-compensation/

  PEOPLE who have suffered traumatic personal injuries should have their long-term compensation determined in a fairer and more transparent way, a cross-party group MSPs has said.
 
Holyrood’s economy committee said personal injury law should be reformed so that the UK Government actuary, not Scottish ministers, decided a key part of the calculation.
 
  The committee was reporting on the principles of the SNP’s Damages (Investment Returns and Periodical Payments) (Scotland) Bill.
 
  The Bill would see a change to the “personal injury discount rate”, which is used to calculate awards for future financial losses, such as ongoing care costs or lost earnings.
 
  This adjusts the amount of compensation paid to a victim to reflect the fact that they can invest the money to generate a return.
**
Panto review: Snow White and the Seven Dames, Perth, four stars
2018-12-03 17:27:03
https://www.heraldscotland.com/news/17273228.panto-review-snow-white-and-the-seven-dames-perth-four-stars/

  Pantomime
 
  Snow White and the Seven Dames
 
  Perth Theatre
 
  Mary Brennan
 
  four stars
**
SPONSORED CONTENT: Ten unique Scottish food brands
2018-12-03 10:36:25
https://www.heraldscotland.com/news/17261619.ten-of-the-most-unique-scottish-food-brands/

  As we approach the Christmas season, thoughts turn to delicious food and drink and tucking into quality fare with friends and family. 
 
  For those hoping to shop local and support Scottish producers, there are a wealth to choose from using only the finest ingredients. From chocolate to confectionery, fish to cheese, there are an array of producers throughout the country to pick from. 
 
  Discover ten Scottish producers who are admired year-round for their commitment to quality and great flavour.
 
  ----------------------------------
 
Bells Food Group
**
Climate for Change: Clean Heat, “The biggest challenge of our generation?”
2018-12-03 10:17:49
https://www.heraldscotland.com/news/17271706.climate-for-change-is-clean-heat-our-biggest-challenge/

  Bold statement perhaps with so much going on in politics, conflict, disease and poverty.
 
  Of course they are all linked but at the base of every strand of the unravelling fabric of our society we get to global warming and firmly at the core of this is the use of fossil fuels.
 
  The reasons to use fossil fuel in Britain, approx 25% is electricity production, 25% for transport. Heat makes up about 50%, mainly from burning gas in our cities and whilst we have a goal, progress isn’t quick enough.
 
So, what is wrong with burning gas?
 
  Well they say the first step to reform is to accept you have a problem. Drugs, alcohol, gambling; cure comes after acceptance. Our problem is gas.
**
Stars of Scottish folk scene shine at annual trad music awards
2018-12-02 16:03:09
https://www.heraldscotland.com/news/17270901.stars-of-scottish-folk-scene-shine-at-annual-trad-music-awards/

  LEADING folk musicians from across the country have been celebrated at the annual Scots Trad Music Awards in Perth.
 
  Hosted by renowned Gaelic singer Mary Ann Kennedy and award-winning musician Kim Carnie, the evening champions Scottish music, heritage and tradition.
 
  Guests at the Perth Concert Hall enjoyed live sets from a number of top performers including Mànran, Hannah Rarity and Gaelic rapper Griogair Labhruidh.
 
  The awards, broadcast live on BBC ALBA and BBC Radio Scotland as well as being streamed worldwide, saw three-piece Talisk scoop the Belhaven Bursary, a £25,000 award for innovation.
 
  Elephant Sessions were named Live Act of the Year while the Album of the Year went to Duncan Chisholm for Sandwood, which celebrates a remote Sutherland bay.
**
Ukraine: Hellish war hidden in plain sight
2018-12-02 14:57:13
https://www.heraldscotland.com/news/17270822.ukraine-hellish-war-hidden-in-plain-sight/

  Young and old they had come to man the barricades. Mostly though they were teenagers, who at times appeared to be looking for a fight.
 
  Ski masks pulled over their faces and wielding clubs or iron bars, they patrolled the fortified redoubts of tyres, barbed wire and sandbags surrounding the entrance to an eleven-storey building towering above Pushkin Boulevard.
 
  Up until a few days earlier this had been functioning as the Donetsk State Administration and City Hall building. Now though, according to the self-styled leader of those occupying the building, it was the headquarters of the “People’s Republic of Donetsk”.
 
  “Russia come to us,” the words of a song blared out from loudspeakers set up on the building’s steps, part of an endless rendition of patriotic Russian songs broken only by the occasional impromptu speaker warning against the evils of the West.
 
  Those were heady times back then in Donetsk in 2014, when predominantly Russian-speaking separatists in the Donetsk and Luhansk regions rose up against the new pro-Western government in Ukraine, sparking a conflict that has now killed more than 10,300 people
**
Feminist group scraps political event after revolt over Tommy Sheridan invite
2018-12-02 10:50:58
https://www.heraldscotland.com/news/17270251.feminist-group-scraps-political-event-after-revolt-over-tommy-sheridan-invite/

  A local campaign to end violence against women has cancelled a political debate after a backlash over the involvement of perjurer Tommy Sheridan.
 
  The disgraced former MSP, who described female witnesses as liars during his trial, had been listed as a speaker at an event organised by Larbert High School’s White Ribbon group.
 
  However, MSP co-panellists Monica Lennon and Angus MacDonald pulled out over the Sheridan link and the school scrapped the event on Friday.
 
  The White Ribbon campaign (WRC) is an international movement of men and boys who are committed to working to end male violence against females.
 
  It was formed in 1991 in response to the murder of fourteen women in Canada by Marc Lepine, who said he was “fighting feminism”.
**
The truth about Govanhill, the most demonised neighbourhood in Scotland ... by the people who live there
2018-12-02 11:42:39
https://www.heraldscotland.com/news/17270400.the-truth-about-govanhill-the-most-demonised-neighbourhood-in-scotland-by-the-people-who-live-there/

  Govanhill is without question the most intensely scrutinised neighbourhood in all of Scotland. It is a place where the ugly issue of race is front and centre every single day. A year ago, there were allegations that Roma parents were selling their children for sex on the streets of Govanhill – but a police investigation has just ended without turning up any evidence to substantiate the claims. Nevertheless, Roma people and Govanhill remain caught in the spotlight. The Roma are demonised and the area portrayed as a no-go zone. The fact that Govanhill falls into the constituency of First Minister Nicola Sturgeon has only served to politicise and super-charge claim and counter-claim.
 
  For the last month, The Herald on Sunday has been in Govanhill, speaking to all communities there – Asian, white and Roma. What we discovered is that while Govanhill, like many neighbourhoods in Scotland, certainly has its fair share of troubles and problems – including poverty, slum conditions and crime – it is most importantly an area awash in myth-making and misinformation, all exacerbated by the most potent and toxic issues of 2018: race and immigration.
 
  THE INCOMER
 
  LEON Puska is sipping tea with vanilla syrup in a cafe popular with Roma folk in Govanhill on Glasgow’s south side. His big smile is at odds with the conversation. He’s talking of the Porajmos, or the Devouring – the Nazi Holocaust which murdered around 500,000 Roma people like him.
 
  Why is it so forgotten, he wonders.
**
Culture chief at South Lanarkshire trust suspended over staff row
2018-12-02 10:13:37
https://www.heraldscotland.com/news/17270254.culture-chief-at-south-lanarkshire-trust-suspended-over-staff-row/

  THE head of one of Scotland’s largest publicly-funded leisure bodies has been suspended amid a row over how a staff grievance was handled.
 
  Gerry Campbell, who earns around £90,000 as general manager of South Lanarkshire Leisure and Culture, has become embroiled in a controversy that is also linked to the departure of the body’s former chair.
 
  A spokesman for SLLC said: “We cannot comment on personnel matters.”
 
  SLLC, a charitable trust funded by South Lanarkshire council, is responsible for the region’s sports facilities, cultural activities, libraries, museums, outdoor recreation and country parks.
 
  It has annual attendance figures of over eight million and employed more than 1000 staff in the 2016/17 financial year.
**
Teaching union considers targeting strike action at Sturgeon's constituency over pay dispute
2018-12-02 09:56:20
https://www.heraldscotland.com/news/17270263.teaching-union-considers-targeting-strike-action-at-nicola-sturgeons-constituency-over-pay-dispute/

  SCOTLAND’s largest teaching union is considering targeted strike action in First Minister Nicola Sturgeon’s constituency over the bitter dispute on classroom pay.
 
  Educational Institute of Scotland (EIS) general secretary Larry Flanagan told colleagues the union could single out schools in seats held by Sturgeon, Education Secretary John Swinney and Finance chief Derek Mackay..
 
  A series of political strikes would mirror the same union’s tactics in the 1980s, when industrial action was taken in areas represented by Scottish Tory MPs during the Thatcher years.
 
  However, a Scottish Conservative spokesman criticised the EIS: “The real victims of strike action will be the children. It’s extremely worrying to learn of this aggressive and targeted approach.
 
  “Pupils and parents can’t be held responsible for living in these seats, yet they are the ones who stand to lose the most. There will be very little public sympathy with this approach.”
**
Defender Borna Barisic returns to action for Rangers Reserves in 5-0 win over Kilmarnock
2018-12-03 16:56:14
https://www.heraldscotland.com/sport/17273125.defender-borna-barisic-returns-to-action-for-rangers-reserves-in-5-0-win-over-kilmarnock/

  BORNA Barisic stepped up his recovery from injury by playing 45 minutes for the Rangers Reserves in their 5-0 win over Kilmarnock.
 
  The Croatian hasn’t featured for Steven Gerrard’s side since the defeat to Livingston in September and the Ibrox boss cast his eye over the action on Monday.
 
  Barisic has returned to action in recent days as he closes in on a spot in Gerrard’s squad.
 
  Nikola Katic played for 68 minutes, while Lee Wallace got a full match under his belt.
 
  Rangers ran out comfortable winners as striker Andy Dallas hit a hat-trick while Jordan Houston and Dapo Mebude were also on target for the Gers.
**
Seventh heaven as Celtic win Betfred League Cup with 1-0 win over plucky Aberdeen
2018-12-02 17:32:10
https://www.heraldscotland.com/sport/17270987.seventh-heaven-as-celtic-win-betfred-league-cup-with-1-0-win-over-plucky-aberdeen/

  It was always going to be Ryan Christie, wasn’t it?
 
  This tournament has been the birth of Christie as a Celtic player. From his arrival onto the turf at Murrayfield as Brendan Rodgers’ side dispatched Hearts in the semi-final, Christie has not looked back.
 
  It was his goal just before the interval in what was a stodgy game at Hampden that proved to be the difference between the teams but it was Christie’s performance overall that gave Celtic impetus on a day when they never quite managed to kill the game off.
 
  As he slid across on his knees in celebration of the goal that proved to be the only one of the match there was a feeling that he deserves his moment in the sun.
 
  Christie has had to be patient in waiting for his chance at Celtic but he has announced his arrival on this stage with a bang every bit as loud as the overhead fireworks that lit up the dank southside sky in the aftermath of Rodgers’ seven successive trophy win at the club.
**
Matthew Lindsay: The triple treble is on for Celtic this season - the best is still to come from Brendan Rodgers' men
2018-12-03 07:00:00
https://www.heraldscotland.com/sport/17271062.matthew-lindsay-the-triple-treble-is-on-for-celtic-this-season-the-best-is-still-to-come-from-brendan-rodgers-men/

  A RYAN Christie goal at the end of the first-half ensured Celtic beat Aberdeen 1-0 and win the Betfred Cup final at Hampden yesterday.
 
  The narrow triumph means the Glasgow club can conceivably achieve another treble this season.
 
  So what did we learn from the first cup final of the 2018/19 campaign?
 
  THE TRIPLE TREBLE IS ON
 
  Brendan Rodgers became just the second manager to win seven consecutive trophies in Scotland yesterday.
**
Kyle Lafferty admits he faces a tough task to oust Alfredo Morelos from the Rangers attack this term
2018-12-03 12:21:18
https://www.heraldscotland.com/sport/17272281.kyle-lafferty-admits-he-faces-a-tough-task-to-oust-alfredo-morelos-from-the-rangers-attack-this-term/

  KYLE LAFFERTY admits he faces a tough task to dislodge in-form striker Alfredo Morelos from the Rangers forward line this term.
 
  The striker returned to Ibrox in the summer to provide competition to Morelos in Steven Gerrard’s squad but has been overshadowed by the Colombian so far.
 
  Lafferty netted twice on his second league debut for the Light Blues against Motherwell before scoring in the Europa League draw away to Villarreal.
 
  But a strike in the 5-1 win over St Johnstone in September is his last league goal for Gerrard’s side as chances have proven to be in short supply.
 
  The Northern Irishman made his 150th appearance for Rangers against Livingston last month but saw Morelos come off the bench to score his 16th goal of the campaign and set up Scott Arfield for the final strike in a 3-0 victory.
**
Rangers make Capital gains and go top of table with victory at Hearts
2018-12-03 06:00:00
https://www.heraldscotland.com/sport/17271041.hearst-1-rangers-2-the-good-the-bad-and-the-ugly-as-rangers-go-top-of-premiership/

  There had been so much mouth-frothing chatter in the week about the prospect of Rangers clambering to the summit yesterday you half expected Steven Gerrard’s team to travel to Tynecastle with backpacks, slabs of Kendal mint cake and Chris Bonnington’s Pictorial Guide To Mountaineering.
 
  In the end, they made it to the top of the Ladbrokes Premiership but scaling such heights doesn’t come easy. At the conclusion of a barnstorming, boisterous, bruising battle full of industry, invention, a good dose of niggle and a hefty chunk of controversy, Rangers turned an early deficit into a 2-1 lead before ploughing on manfully for the second time in a few days with 10-men as Scott Arfield was sent-off amid the general tumult.
 
  With Alfredo Morelos’ winner stoking up much heated debate as the Colombian was lurking in an offside position when he flicked home a delightful finish just before half-time, there was plenty to rake over once the billowing dust from a rambunctious encounter had finally settled.
 
  GERRARD NOT GETTING GIDDY ON LOFTY PERCH
 
  So, Rangers are top of the league. And their fans celebrated like they’d won the league.
**
Nottingham Forest legend Kenny Burns hopes Reds don't recall Rangers defender Joe Worrall in January
2018-12-03 17:06:29
https://www.heraldscotland.com/sport/17273163.nottingham-forest-legend-kenny-burns-hopes-reds-dont-recall-rangers-defender-joe-worrall-in-january/

  NOTTINGHAM Forest legend Kenny Burns hopes Joe Worrall isn’t brought back from his Rangers loan spell early.
 
  Boss Aitor Karanka faces a defensive crisis after Michael Dawson was injured against Ipswich and could recall Worrall in January.
 
  Burns is keen for him to stay at Ibrox and told the Nottingham Post: “The manager will probably wait to see how Dawson is, but even if he is going to be out for a while, I still wouldn’t bring Worrall back.
 
  “He’ll learn more up there, working for Steven Gerrard and playing in the kind of matches he has been doing, than he would if he’d stayed at Forest this year.
 
  “If you bring Joe back and Fox and Dawson end up not being out for too long, then all of a sudden he’s back to barely playing again.
**
Ryan Christie: I fought back the tears when I saw my parents at the end
2018-12-02 22:33:37
https://www.heraldscotland.com/sport/17271163.ryan-christie-i-fought-back-the-tears-when-i-saw-my-parents-at-the-end/

  RYAN Christie admitted he fought back the tears when he caught a glimpse of his parents at the final whistle at Hampden yesterday. The 23-year-old confirmed his emergence as a star turn in this Celtic team with the all-important goal which decided yesterday’s Betfred Cup final, expertly timing his run from deep and keeping his wits about him to finish with his left foot after Joe Lewis had defied the first effort with his right.
 
  It was an emotional moment for his mum Sharon and dad Charlie, not least because the latter was on the books at Celtic during the 1980s but never featured in a first team game. The punchline was even provided by Rodgers, who quipped that Ryan was no longer known as Charlie’s son. Now Charlie is simply Ryan’s dad.
 
  “It was amazing for my mum and dad to come down and see me,” said Christie, who has ties with Aberdeen having spent 18 months on loan there, missing out on the 2017 Scottish Cup final due to a clause in his deal. “When the final whistle went, I looked up and managed to catch eyes with them. I got a bit emotional myself when that happened because it has been a long road.
 
  “I’ll be honest, it was pretty overwhelming for me,” he added. “It was always going to be a strange day in any case coming up against Aberdeen and it shows that football can work in funny ways sometimes. But seeing my parents brought that overwhelming feeling of happiness and I was delighted for them to be able to see that.
 
  “He [Rodgers] was joking with me about it. If you get a chance, say that to my dad! No, he has helped me so much in my career and it was nice to almost pay him back here. I have been wanting to do things like this ever since I signed for Celtic but it’s nice to not just play but make an impact of games. That’s my job as an attacking midfielder. When it comes in a cup final, that makes it even better.”
**
Graeme Shinnie: Celtic's Mikael Lustig and Scott Brown lacked class in their celebrations
2018-12-03 09:59:33
https://www.heraldscotland.com/sport/17271162.graeme-shinnie-celtics-mikael-lustig-and-scott-brown-lacked-class-in-their-celebrations/

  ABERDEEN captain Graeme Shinnie said last night that Celtic had showed a lack of class in the way they rubbed the Pittodrie side’s Betfred Cup final defeat in their faces. The showpiece ended in acrimony with Mikael Lustig appearing to gesture towards Lewis Ferguson and Shinnie and Brown involved in angry exchanges. Plenty of handshakes weren’t exchanged and the Pittodrie captain insisted afterwards that Celtic’s celebrations had been undignified.
 
  “It just frustrated me when some of their players are celebrating in front of a young 19-year-old kid who is just trying to do well,” said Shinnie. “You can have a wee bit more class than that.
 
  READ MORE: Matthew Lindsay: The triple treble is on for Celtic this season - the best is still to come from Brendan Rodgers' men
 
  “Was Brown noising me up too?” he added. “Definitely. There’s ways to go about being a captain. You can have a bit of class about you - they don’t and it frustrated me. He will do what he does. It doesn’t bother me. But when it’s people like young Ferguson they are going for ... they are older professionals and they should know better.”
 
  “Did I have to speak with Lewis afterwards? No, he’s a mature young man. He’s dealt with stuff like that in the past and he will deal with it again when he’s involved in big games. He can handle himself very well and he will be fine.
**
Brendan Rodgers hails footballing gods as Ryan Christie nets cup final winner for Celtic against old club Aberdeen
2018-12-02 20:02:17
https://www.heraldscotland.com/sport/17271086.brendan-rodgers-hails-footballing-gods-as-ryan-christie-nets-cup-final-winner-for-celtic-against-old-club-aberdeen/

  BRENDAN Rodgers hailed the footballing gods following Celtic’s narrow Betfred Cup final win over Aberdeen at Hampden – after Ryan Christie netted the winner against the club who helped him make the breakthrough at Parkhead.
 
  Christie, who has spent the past season and a half on loan at Pittodrie, struck for the defending champions in the fifth minute of added on time at the end of the first-half and his goal ultimately proved decisive.
 
  Rodgers refused to be drawn on the prospect of the double treble winners completing a clean sweep of domestic honours for the third season running after lifting the seventh trophy of his reign. “We haven’t even played the second round of games yet in the league,” he said. “That’s a long, long way away.
 
  But he admitted the fact that Christie was the match winner against opponents who had improved him as a player and had hoped to land him in the close season had been ironic.
 
  “It’s the footballing gods that we saw today,” said Rodgers. “When I came in he wasn’t ready to play week in, week out. We could see there was a talent there, but you need to have that physicality. You need to have that power as well as the quality. He’s always had the quality. I felt he needed to get some games.
**
Hearts 1-2 Rangers: Steven Gerrard's side go top of the Premiership after Tynecastle win
2018-12-02 14:48:13
https://www.heraldscotland.com/sport/17270820.hearts-1-2-rangers-steven-gerrards-side-go-top-of-the-premiership-after-tynecastle-win/

  THIS wasn’t how Steven Gerrard and his players wanted to spend this particular Sunday afternoon. As consolation prizes go, it wasn’t a bad one, though.
 
  If all had gone to plan, Rangers would have been going for their first silverware of Gerrard’s reign at Hampden. Instead, they had to settle for going top of the Premiership.
 
  Gerrard had urged his players to make the most of the chance to move above Celtic and it was an opportunity they grabbed with both hands. Despite falling behind to a Gareth McAuley own goal, efforts from Connor Goldson and Alfredo Morelos won it for the Light Blues.
 
  A red card to Scott Arfield caused Rangers some angst but the spirit and character that has become the hallmark of Gerrard’s side shone through once again. It was an afternoon where Gerrard would rightly be proud of his players.
 
  In the last two seasons, Rangers have been well off the pace and been under pressure at this stage. Today, they have all of their Premiership rivals behind them.
**
Brendan Rodgers plans to be party pooper if Celtic win League Cup
2018-12-02 00:20:31
https://www.heraldscotland.com/sport/17270286.brendan-rodgers-plans-to-be-party-pooper-if-celtic-win-league-cup/

  BRENDAN Rodgers will be a party pooper if Celtic win the Betfred Cup this afternoon against Aberdeen at Hampden, telling his players the champagne will remain on ice if they land their seventh consecutive trophy.
 
  Rodgers has learned from the experience of the last time Celtic saw off Aberdeen to win this competition in 2016, when his players were allowed off the leash only to suffer for it in their next game against Motherwell at Fir Park.
 
  Celtic travel to face the same opponent yet again on Wednesday night, and Rodgers has therefore decreed that any celebrations will be put on hold until the winter break.
 
  “It’ll be quiet,” Rodgers said. “The problem we had the last time was we won the League Cup final [against Aberdeen] then we went a week later and were 2-0 down at half-time at Motherwell. We came back and won 4-3.
 
  “We’ll get a period in January where we can reflect on everything if we need to and enjoy it is we can.
**
Celtic 1 Aberdeen 0: Gary Mackay Steven blow the start of another grim Glasgow Groundhog day for the Dons
2018-12-02 22:42:15
https://www.heraldscotland.com/sport/17271170.celtic-1-aberdeen-0-gary-mackay-steven-blow-the-start-of-another-grim-glasgow-groundhog-day-for-the-dons/

  WHAT a brutal old business football can be. You may remember Kieran Tierney being forced to leave a Hampden cup final against Aberdeen 18 months ago for some emergency dental work following a swinging arm from Jayden Stockley, returning by jogging through the car park in time to hold the trophy aloft.
 
  Well, what happened to Gary Mackay Steven here yesterday was the same except without the happy ending.
 
  This time, the former Celtic winger, carefully stretchered off after what seemed like an eternity receiving treatment in a net brace, never returned.
 
  And no sooner had his ambulance left Mount Florida than Dedryck Boyata, patched up with a bandage after getting off slightly better from the aerial collision which left his former team-mate in this dreadful state, was picking out the sweetest of passes for the first goal which got Celtic off and running in another major final.
 
  Aberdeen captain Graeme Shinnie,, the man who has appeared visibly distressed when he stood above the body of the prone Mackay Steven, was also the man who lost focus long enough to match the run of Ryan Christie. He held his head in his hands as his former Aberdeen team-mate kept his wits about him after Joe Lewis had saved his right-foot shot to steer in the rebound with an unerring sweep of his left.
**
Greg Stewart admits that Kilmarnock's biggest concern is holding on to Steve Clarke
2018-12-02 22:32:39
https://www.heraldscotland.com/sport/17271157.greg-stewart-admits-that-kilmarnocks-biggest-concern-is-holding-on-to-steve-clarke/

  THE two power cuts that delayed the conclusion of this match may have had Kilmarnock fans sweating given they held a two-goal lead at the time, but Greg Stewart knows that there would be a real period of darkness settling over the Ayrshire town if they fail to keep a hold of manager Steve Clarke.
 
  The former West Brom boss has lit up Rugby Park, with this deserved victory temporarily elevating Killie into second place in the Premiership standings ahead of Rangers’ victory over Hearts yesterday.
 
  Once power was restored, Stewart was the man who put the icing on this cakewalk against a woeful Hibernian outfit. A first-half double from Eamonn Brophy had them cruising, and the only thing that looked remotely likely to deny them victory was the absence of a decent electrician.
 
  On-loan Birmingham City attacker Stewart is just praying that he is working under the man responsible for the stark change of fortunes at Kilmarnock for as long as possible.
 
  “The gaffer’s been brilliant with me ever since I came in and I just hope that he stays,” Stewart said. “That’s the big worry - when you do well in football, someone will see it and the next thing you know they’re away.
**
Scotland boss Alex McLeish eyes automatic Euro 2020 qualification - despite drawing Belgium and Russia
2018-12-02 20:38:12
https://www.heraldscotland.com/sport/17271110.scotland-boss-alex-mcleish-eyes-automatic-euro-2020-qualification-despite-drawing-belgium-and-russia/

  ALEX McLeish believes Scotland can secure automatic qualification for the Euro 2020 finals despite being drawn alongside Russia 2018 semi-finalists Belgium in Group I in Dublin yesterday.
 
  The national team were beaten 4-0 by the top placed team in the FIFA world rankings in a friendly at Hampden back in September.
 
  But McLeish, whose side will also face World Cup quarter-finalists Russia, Cyprus, Kazakhstan and San Marino next year, is optimistic they can finish in the top two in their section.
 
  “We want to usurp the teams ranked above us,” he said. “We’d like to be inspired by smaller countries who went to the Euros last time as third and fourth seeds, like Northern Ireland and Albania.
 
  “Belgium are a wonderful team with wonderful individuals and they have also shown they can play as a team.
**
Celtic 1 Aberdeen 0 ; how Celtic rated in Betfred League Cup triumph
2018-12-02 18:45:23
https://www.heraldscotland.com/sport/17271004.celtic-1-aberdeen-0-how-celtic-rated-in-betfred-league-cup-triumph/

  BAIN: As promised, given the gloves for the final but not a huge amount to do. Watched with some consternation as a Simunovic clearance hit his crossbar and alert to a save from James Wilson in the second period as Aberdeen pushed for a leveller. (7)
 
  LUSTIG: Unnecessarily involved in a tussle as he kept the ball off of Sam Cosgrove in the latter stages of the game and for which the Aberdeen player was booked. Also had a a run-in with Dons kid Lewis Ferguson which could have been avoided. (7)
 
  BENKOVIC: Let fly with a rasping effort shortly after Celtic had missed from the spot but was denied by a decent stop from Lewis. Composed and calm at the back and strolled though the game without incident. (7)
 
  BOYATA: Involved in a sickening clash of heads with Gary Mackay-Steven just before the break. Surprisingly returned to the fray after being stitched and bandaged on the sidelines. Played in the pass for Christie to open the scoring. Off just before the hour mark. (7)
 
  TIERNEY: Usual shift up and down the flank but looked a little jaded, unsurprisingly given the sheet volume of games he has played this season. Enjoyed the celebrations with what is becoming a tradition of reaching for the megaphone. (7)
**
Brendan Rodgers knows that he will be judged on trophies at Celtic, but his joy comes from developing his players
2018-12-02 00:06:16
https://www.heraldscotland.com/sport/17270252.brendan-rodgers-knows-that-he-will-be-judged-on-trophies-at-celtic-but-his-joy-comes-from-developing-his-players/

  BRENDAN Rodgers knows that when it comes to assessing his Celtic legacy, it is days like today that will count. The measure of any manager at such a club always comes down to how many trophies he tucked into the cabinet, and the Celtic boss has not been doing too badly on that score.
 
  He goes into the Betfred Cup final against Aberdeen at Hampden this afternoon recognising then that from the supporters’ point of view, the most important thing is simply see the men in green and white hoist the cup above their heads. But making it seven trophies out of seven since taking over at the club won’t be enough for Rodgers. How they win it is just as important to him, with the Northern Irishman gleaning just as much satisfaction as watching players he has helped to flourish shine on the biggest stages our game has to offer.
 
  “[Winning trophies] is what we’ll be judged on at the end of it,” Rodgers said. “That’s never solely been my own measure. It has always been about development of players, development of people, and hopefully creating an environment that allows winning.
 
  “My joy comes from seeing everyone else. It really does. I love seeing people happy. And I think it is because I very quickly move on to the next experience. I ask people to celebrate success, I want them to enjoy it, but I think sometimes when you are the leader you tend to look for the next experience. And very quickly, for some reason, that’s my next thought.
 
  “So, I know that after the game on Sunday, I’ll be flying out to speak to a player on Monday, so there won’t be any big celebration whatever it is, or not. We have to get to work the next day.
**
Tam McManus: Redemption at Ayr has been fairytale of the season
2018-12-03 12:29:57
https://www.heraldscotland.com/sport/17271184.tam-mcmanus-redemption-at-ayr-has-been-fairytale-of-the-season/

  One of the fairytale stories of the season so far in Scottish Football has been the renaissance of Ayr United. I am delighted to see them flying again.
 
  The Honest Men have been a club that has perennially bounced between the Championship and League 1 during the course of the last 40 years.
 
  They are one of my many former clubs and are steeped in plenty of history, going back to the days of the great Ally MacLeod who in the late 60s and 70s had Ayr established as a solid top-flight side. Crowds of 20,000 would regularly pack into Somerset Park to watch them pit their wits against the best sides in Scotland.
 
  Literally not much has changed at Somerset Park since those halcyon days – until now that is. A thumping 5-0 win at Tannadice against a rejuvenated Dundee United to send them five points clear at the top of the Championship delivered a clear message.
 
  This Ayr United side mean business and are not going to fade away. Lawrence Shankland has been one of the stars of the season in Scotland who in notching four goals on the night took his tally to an incredible 26 goals in 23 games. But the main catalyst in Ayr’s rise has undoubtedly been the ebullient Ian McCall.
**
Derek McInnes proud that Aberdeen continue to be the ones carrying the fight to Celtic
2018-12-02 00:06:52
https://www.heraldscotland.com/sport/17270259.derek-mcinnes-proud-that-aberdeen-continue-to-be-the-ones-carrying-the-fight-to-celtic/

  THE theme of last week’s build-up to the Betfred Cup from an Aberdeen perspective has very much been about carrying the fight. And if you have any doubts about their ability to raise a strong challenge to Celtic at Hampden this afternoon, then Derek McInnes may argue that you haven’t been watching what his team have done over the last few years.
 
  The Pittodrie boss is proud that even now, with strong challenges restored at the top end of the table from the likes of Rangers, Hibernian, Hearts and Kilmarnock, it is still his Aberdeen side who are there to ask questions of Celtic at the business end of competitions.
 
  “We’re still there,” McInnes said. “We’re still getting to finals and we still finished second last year and they’ve [Rangers] been back up for a couple of seasons now, so the challenge gets tougher and tougher to maintain.
 
  “To maintain it for the last five, six years has been tough. To maintain it beyond that is the challenge that we all face but I’m actually really enjoying it and hopefully, regardless of who’s manager at Rangers or Celtic or what teams you play, I would like to look back in time and think that we did a lot of good work at Aberdeen and hopefully [we will] have trophies to show for it.”
 
  One man who McInnes believes fully deserves to walk up those Hampden steps to collect the trophy is his captain Graeme Shinnie. Mentioning his name in the same breath as a Willie Miller may be premature, but his manager would love to see his inspirational leadership over these past few seasons rewarded with even a fraction of the accolades that the Dons’ greatest captain collected.
**
Tyson Fury: I ain't staying down just because I got punched in the face
2018-12-02 23:42:05
https://www.heraldscotland.com/sport/17271191.tyson-fury-i-aint-staying-down-just-because-i-got-punched-in-the-face/

  Tyson Fury was unable to explain how he got back to his feet after the heavy 12th-round knockdown by Deontay Wilder that appeared to have left him unconscious.
 
  The WBC heavyweight title
 
  challenger could not have been closer to defeat when Wilder landed a heavy left-right combination at the Staples Center in Los Angeles.
 
  Fury somehow found the strength to return to his feet and even ended the fight on top as he and Wilder fought to a thrilling and controversial draw, one which essentially makes an immediate rematch inevitable.
 
  Fury’s success in out-boxing his American opponent and resisting his remarkable power would make him the favourite in those circumstances, and the 30-year-old said: “I don’t know how I got up.
**
Ferocious 14-man Warriors give Rennie a selection headache
2018-12-02 23:35:03
https://www.heraldscotland.com/sport/17271185.warriors-give-rennie-a-selection-headache/

  A ROUSING display of sustained ferocity allowed Glasgow Warriors to overcome an early red card and beat the team that cost them a place in last season’s Guinness PRO14 final with something to spare.
 
  Encouragingly, as they head into the Heineken Champions Cup, the platform was laid by the forwards, who played with a level of intensity the
 
  Scarlets could not deal with. Despite being a man down, the scrum was immense as Oli Kebble came off the bench to overpower the Welsh and they won the breakdown battle with a mixture of grit and guile.
 
  The Scarlets could not cope. The least penalised team in the PRO14 going into the game gave away a staggering 17 penalties – almost three times as many as the six surrendered by Glasgow – as well as two yellow cards. Only a couple of moments of sloppy concentration as exhaustion set in late in the game allowed the Welsh to make a contest of it.
 
  Those mistakes allowed the Scarlets to recover from 26-8 down to bring themselves within range at 26-20 with tries from Steff Evans and Clayton Blommetjies before Brandon Thomson kicked his fifth and final penalty to bring his personal haul to 24 points and seal the result. That should not obscure the reality that there was only one side that deserved the points.
**
Marianne Taylor: Why Nicola Sturgeon should steer clear of this phony TV debate
2018-12-03 10:21:25
https://www.heraldscotland.com/news/17270801.marianne-taylor-why-nicola-sturgeon-should-steer-clear-of-this-phony-tv-debate/

  IN these strange, dispiriting, discombobulating times, I find myself relying on simple pleasures to get me through. You know the sort of thing. Raking leaves. Making soup. Cat videos on You Tube. Running through fields of wheat.
 
  I’ve also discovered more comfort than I ever thought possible in Sunday night telly, with the viewing figures suggesting many, if not most of us, have also come to rely on this weekly fix of what I’ve come to call tranquiliser television.
 
  I’ve stuck with BBC One since Bodyguard and The Cry, happily settling over the last few weeks into a comfortable routine that comprises Doctor Who, the Strictly results show, David Attenborough’s Dynasties and The Big Drama, perhaps because aliens, a verbal pasting from Craig Revel Horwood and watching baby wild animals struggle to survive are all still much more pleasurable than contemplating Brexit.
 
  And this is why I must object in the strongest terms to any plan that involves Theresa May and Jeremy Corbyn interrupting my precious Sunday night viewing with a Brexit debate.
 
  Of course, since the details are still being worked out/argued over behind the scenes by lackeys, it’s possible ITV will host proceedings, though I can’t imagine fans of I’m A Celebrity…Get Me Out of Here!, forced to forsake their usual slebs so the PM and the Leader of Her Majesty’s Opposition can publicly humiliate themselves in what will would surely be the dullest Bushtucker trial of all time, will be best pleased either.
**
Herald View: Music tuition shake-up hits a sour note
2018-12-03 05:09:18
https://www.heraldscotland.com/opinion/17271352.herald-view-music-tuition-shake-up-hits-a-sour-note/

  WHATEVER one’s views of councillors, balancing the books of local authorities in these times of scarce resources isn’t easy. Most councillors, other than a few intent on party-based confrontation, make a fair fist of trying not to cut services with the income they have.
 
  Midlothian Council might count among these. As with others, it has had to make cuts in the past but, this year, it rejected many suggestions of savings made by its own officials and went out of its way to safeguard libraries, school crossings and so forth. To balance the budget, it raised council tax by 3 per cent. It even reduced the number of floral displays and shrub beds to save £65,000.
 
  All very laudable, perhaps even imaginative. However, one rather clever – perhaps even cunning – move has set alarm bells ringing. The council has transferred the cost of music tuition for exams from its central budget to its schools’ devolved budgets. As a result, sums of up to £38,000 will be lost to schools, leading to fears of a decline in the number of pupils sitting music exams.
 
  This comes against a backdrop of wider concern about the future of music tuition. Earlier this year, the Educational Institute of Scotland warned of music tuition being “eroded to extinction”. It pointed out that, since 2007, the number of music instructors dropped from 1043 to 701.
 
  It also expressed concern about increasing charges to parents for music tuition leading to a “who pays, plays” culture. Midlothian itself has at various times over the years introduced charges, halved them, dropped them, and reintroduced them, albeit with exemptions for those in receipt of free school meals or from families on benefits.
**
Obituary: Ricky Jay, conjuror, actor and historian of magic
2018-12-03 16:36:08
https://www.heraldscotland.com/opinion/17273043.obituary-ricky-jay-conjuror-actor-and-historian-of-magic/

  Conjuror, actor and historian of magic
 
  Born: June 26 1946;
 
  Died: November 24
 
  RICKY Jay, who has died aged 72, was by universal acclaim one of the three or four greatest sleight-of-hand conjurors and card mechanics of his time, and possibly of all time. Jay could make an audience member’s card appear to levitate from the deck, find consecutive cards with a one-handed cut or cascade, and – having let someone else shuffle – deal himself a perfect gin rummy hand, while dealing everyone else in the game a hand which appeared a certain winner.
 
  At a dinner with members of his aikido club, he once turned two single dollar bills into a two-dollar bill. The other members were so infuriated by this trick that three weeks later, they ambushed him, naked, in the shower, and demanded he repeat the effect. Which he did.
**
Letters: There is precedent for us to negotiate a better EU deal
2018-12-03 05:03:55
https://www.heraldscotland.com/opinion/17271317.letters-there-is-precedent-for-us-to-negotiate-a-better-eu-deal/

  THE leader of Scotland’s voluntary organisations, Anna Fowlie, is spot on when she says “no one on the Leave side campaigned for a No Deal Brexit, and it is nonsense to suggest this would respect the outcome” (“Why we must withdraw the Article 50 letter, Agenda, The Herald, November 29 ). Every MP knows this is true and now most must surely also accept that the Prime Minister’s negotiated agreement is dead in the water, commanding insufficient political or public support. So, when she loses the forthcoming vote in the UK Parliament, the next step is straightforward – the decks have to be cleared for a second referendum, based this time on clear understanding of the options before us.
 
  For those still favouring Leave the Norway model is the only sensible route at this stage – out of the EU but still in the single market. That will do for a few years and can be subject to further negotiation, if necessary, beyond the next General Election. For the Remainers the vote should be for EU minus – still in the European Union but no longer part of the Common Agricultural Policy or Common Fisheries Policy. The EU negotiators will not like this, but will give way in the end because their political masters will be so relieved to keep the UK on board that a bit of a dent in the CAP and CFP schemes will only ruffle a few feathers. And of course the UK will significantly reduce its budget contributions to the EU – with the CAP consuming around 40 per cent of the total EU budget, the UK can expect to be relieved of that burden as it opts out of the CAP.
 
  Such special arrangements amongst EU members are not unique. When Denmark joined it was given a special derogation – the free market in land sales was constrained so that persons not resident in Denmark were prevented from buying land. Otherwise their nice coastline would have been bought by rich folk living in other countries with an eye to second homes. So today a Scot cannot go to Denmark and buy a few acres but, ironically, the reverse does not apply. A Danish citizen, Anders Povlsen, has been busy in recent years buying large chunks of Scotland. At 222,000 acres-plus he is now top of the pile, with even more land than the Duke of Buccleuch. So the message to our MPs is simple – another referendum please, with the choice between the Norway model or EU minus and, if the Brussels bureaucrats kick up a fuss about special arrangements, just remind them of the Danish model.
 
  Dave Morris,
 
  2 Bishop Terrace, Kinnesswood, Kinross.
**
Agenda: Let us rediscover the value of arts and crafts
2018-12-03 08:40:04
https://www.heraldscotland.com/opinion/17271505.agenda-let-us-rediscover-the-value-of-arts-and-crafts/

  By Hugo Burge, Director of Marchmont Ventures and Wasps Artists’ Studios trustee
 
  THE digital revolution offers us the opportunity to tap into, and drive, the rapidly evolving demands of a global marketplace.
 
  It is hard not to get excited about this, or to see that it’s imperative to be at the forefront of progress. This is the realm where I spent much of my career. And yet, I firmly believe that we cannot allow the lure of digitisation and globalisation to eclipse other practices and values – if we do they risk becoming a Siren song.
 
  The Industrial Revolution of the 19th century brought mechanisation and mass production but gave us the Arts and Crafts Movement as a counterbalance. Today we need something similar, a new drive to promote craftsmanship, community and nature. While we strive for digital excellence we also need to give an honoured place to those who recognise that a purely digital world would be a place of imbalance.
 
  The Arts and Crafts Movement created an enduring legacy with its celebration of quality, workmanship, simplicity in design and the use of local materials. With eight billion people on the planet, an explosion of middle class consumption, diminishing resources and climate change we must rediscover these values. Technology cannot solve everything. We need to live sustainably, making and buying things that endure, celebrating the local and valuing the maker and the artist.
**
Letters: Why renewable energy is imperative for all our futures
2018-12-03 05:04:05
https://www.heraldscotland.com/opinion/17271319.letters-why-renewable-energy-is-imperative-for-all-our-futures/

  CHANGING the way in which we generate, transmit and use energy is imperative in order to deliver the clean energy system we need to tackle climate change.
 
  The average UK fossil fuel power station is more than 30 years old and we must replace these ageing plants with clean, cheap and secure generation if Scotland and the UK are to meet existing carbon targets.
 
  Renewable energy ticks all those boxes – and it’s popular, with the latest UK Government poll showing more than 82 per cent of the UK public back the use of renewable energy to provide our electricity, fuel and heat.
 
  Renewables now provide almost 70 per cent of Scotland’s electricity supply and National Grid, which is responsible for the security of our energy system, is already planning for more green power generation, saying it is confident "we will have the intelligence available in the system to ensure power is consumed when it’s there and not when it’s not there".
 
  Investing in renewable generation means stabilising energy costs, banking on technology which is becoming cheaper every day, creating jobs and reducing carbon emissions.
**
Won't someone rid us of the curse of the malevolent wheelie bins?
2018-12-03 05:04:11
https://www.heraldscotland.com/opinion/17271320.wont-someone-rid-us-of-the-curse-of-the-malevolent-wheelie-bins/

  THE Scottish Government has introduced a Transport Bill which includes a ban on pavement parking. Edinburgh is going to ban street advertising boards.
 
  The RNIB wants this ban to be extended to other councils ("Councils urged to ban street advertising boards", The Herald, November 24). They can of course easily, given the will. The Roads (Scotland) Act makes it an offence to place anything on a road, and this includes the pavement, without the roads authority's written consent.
 
  However, that is all well and good if these things happen. There is still a giant and incredibly overlooked spoke in the wheel for pedestrians, handicapped or not – the multiplying problem of the wheelie bin.
 
  I have never seen any article, news report, or letter indicating their malevolent effect on pedestrians whether handicapped, pushing a pram or just walking. How often do you see them brooding on a narrow pavement, demanding all of it, clustered together outside a tenement block presumably for protection from irritated passers-by and leaving little pedestrian space? And waiting patiently for their owners to take them home when they return from work, if as so often, they are not emptied till the householder has left.
 
  The Environmental Protection Act 1990 makes a quite specific requirement that these containers should only be allowed on footways when the roads authority is satisfied they will not cause obstruction. In British Columbia it is an offence, with a high probability you will be caught, to obstruct the pavement, thus no pavement parking and rubbish containers go on the carriageway. In Northern Spain I think the same arrangement operates.
**
Letters: Perverse NHS targets give rise to bullying
2018-12-03 05:04:00
https://www.heraldscotland.com/opinion/17271318.letters-perverse-nhs-targets-give-rise-to-bullying/

  WITH the revelation that one in three doctors claim bullying and harassment is a problem in the workplace ("Third of doctors say workplace has bullying issue", The Herald, November 28) one can only despair at the current management structure in the NHS. You do not see this in private hospitals. Unfortunately, the Griffiths report of 1983 replaced "consensus" management in the NHS with "modern, general" management. When allied to the many subsequent changes to health care delivery, this produced a culture of competition and conflict more akin to a corporate boardroom than a public service organisation.
 
  With the introduction of the "new" consultant contract in 2003, a Faustian pact which accentuated the transition of medicine from being a vocation and profession to just a job, came a weapon for management to destroy the autonomy and indeed harmony of doctors working in hospitals. Polishing my rose-tinted spectacles, I can recall the professional satisfaction of working in hospitals simply managed by a medical superintendent, matron and hospital administrators. Clearly with the operational complexity and financial structure of today's hospitals, that world has long since gone. Today, we live in a world of transparency and openness, and of public accountability, and yet it appears that management can attempt to suppress politically unfavourable information, as revealed by the four NHS Highland clinicians who spoke out.
 
  Fifteen to 20 years ago, I and many other doctors regularly wrote letters which were published in the columns of this paper, but recently any contributions have been from retired doctors, with a noticeable absence from consultants and general practitioners still in medical practice. It may be that they are effectively gagged which would be of concern to the general public, but if not it would be helpful for doctors who are not in a managerial role to refute this. Perhaps they are dispirited and feel intimidated. Crucially whistle blowing, encouraged and supported by politicians, often seems to be treated with an aggressive dismissal of the issue by managers, and the public kept in the dark about problems they have the right to be aware of. Any managerial dishonesty and duplicity should be exposed.
 
  One point of contention has been the perverse use of targets, beloved of politicians and managers who use them to manipulate clinical priorities. While these have been set for new hospital referrals, as Dr William Durward elegantly pointed out in a recent letter to The Herald (November 7), these targets do not seem to apply to follow-up appointments, often arguably more significant than the initial one. Indeed Consultant Neurologist Dr Bethany Jones left NHS Highland to work in New Zealand, quoting patients who suffer "serious, irreversible and avoidable" harm because follow-up appointment times were "deliberately" delayed to meet targets. Professor Carrie MacEwan, President of The Royal College of Ophthalmologists, described patients who were suffering needless sight loss due to delays in follow-up appointments. This practice of delaying appointments also occurs in clinics in the Greater Glasgow Health Board, and I would like to know if consultants are complicit in either sanctioning it or turning a blind eye to the policy. This practice would certainly seem to be the background to management bullying in some parts of the UK.
 
  John Sinclair,
**
Streetwise reminders of our past
2018-12-03 05:04:13
https://www.heraldscotland.com/opinion/17271321.streetwise-reminders-of-our-past/

  MANY of your readers must have seen the recent BBC programmes on Scotland’s huge involvement in the slave trade and followed the subsequent debate in these pages over the past weeks. We don’t like to be reminded of it and yet we owe so much to those forgotten ones. We need to be reminded.
 
  I have discovered that many German towns and cities have small brass plaques called "stolpersteine" (or stumbling-stones) set in the pavements. Each one bears the name and a few details of a Holocaust victim. They are set flush with the surrounding cobblestones so not literally to be stumbled over. It might be more that the passerby stumbles in their conscience over the message each stone contains.
 
  We all know there were six million who perished in the Nazi gas ovens. We are rightly horrified. It is so far beyond anything we could ever ever imagine of ourselves, of course. Of course. And yet the blood of perhaps not dissimilar numbers is right there in the stones of not a few of our own streets and public buildings. Six million? Has anyone ever tried to work it out? How many slaves did it take to create the wealth of even this little nation? It could be far more – even for Scotland alone. There certainly are far too many. And they are all now nearly forgotten.
 
  What would the good citizens of Glasgow and Edinburgh think if they found little brass plaques in their streets: “To a Forgotten Slave of the 18th or 19th Century. Our Wealth was Built on this One’s Poverty and Pain”?
 
  It’s history, people will say. That means no longer of much relevance. Not relevant in a country that by majority vote (well, for the UK as a whole) would wish to control the flow into its territory of the kind of folk whose enforced labour it once was quite happy to profit from. No, we need to be reminded more than ever.
**
Review: RSNO/Sondergard, Glasgow Royal Concert Hall, four stars
2018-12-03 12:17:03
https://www.heraldscotland.com/arts_ents/17272269.review-rsnosondergard-glasgow-royal-concert-hall-four-stars/

  Music
 
  RSNO/Sondergard
 
Glasgow Royal Concert Hall
 
  Keith Bruce
 
  four stars
**
Review: Scottish Chamber Orchestra, City Hall,, Glasgow, five stars
2018-12-03 12:22:19
https://www.heraldscotland.com/arts_ents/17272286.review-scottish-chamber-orchestra-city-hall-glasgow-five-stars/

  Music
 
  Scottish Chamber Orchestra
 
  City Hall, Glasgow
 
  Keith Bruce
 
  five stars
**
ARTS NEWS: More events fundraise for Hidden Door, Edinburgh's take on Christmas Carol, Turner painting barred from export
2018-12-03 05:02:34
https://www.heraldscotland.com/arts_ents/17271303.arts-news-more-events-fundraise-for-hidden-door-edinburghs-take-on-christmas-carol-turner-painting-barred-from-export/

  THE campaign to raise money for a popular Edinburgh festival, Hidden Door, has raised £20,000, but organisers hope a series of events will generate more.
 
  Hidden Door said it is issuing a "final rallying call" for support to "secure its future."
 
  The festival says it can return in 2020 if its fundraising targets are met - they need to raise £40,000 by the end of the year.
 
  Hidden Door said it hopes to run a smaller “weekender event” in 2019, featuring live music at the Leith Theatre, which the festival has been key in re-vitalising.
 
  The organisers have said that a benefactor has "come forward to offer an interest-free loan in the form of match funding, if the campaign can reach the halfway point of £40,000 by 31 December 2018."
**
I have changed and I know I’ve changed: Nick Nairn on ditching the diva act
2018-12-03 08:17:23
https://www.heraldscotland.com/news/17271374.i-have-changed-and-i-know-ive-changed-nick-nairn-on-ditching-the-diva-act/

  TURNING 60 in January holds no fears for Nick Nairn – or, as I tend to think of him, the Peter Pan of the culinary world. Turns out he has other fish to fry than fretting and, with typical enthusiasm, he can’t wait to get started.
 
  Uppermost in his mind is kickstarting his Cook School at Port of Menteith, near Aberfoyle, following the painful experience of calling time on his Aberdeen venture. He closed his Cook School there in June, and Nick’s Pizza Bar and Café, which had opened in 2016, in July. His focus now is on maximising the long-established asset that is his fabulous purpose-built building on the banks of the famous lake. Pizza at the Port, where customers’ orders are made by the chef himself, has already proved very popular.
 
  “Coming out of Aberdeen was a tumultuous, difficult period, just horrible,” he says. “But it was also a blessing because we’ve realised what we’ve had here for so many years but have perhaps under-used because we had so many other things on the go.”
 
  READ MORE: Man arrested over attack on Scots celebrity chef Nick Nairn 
 
  His multi-million-pound Aberdeen cook school, which opened in 2012, was very successful, but ran into trouble when in 2016 the price of a barrel of oil went from $100 to $30 almost overnight and the oil and gas companies stopped spending money, and corporate business dried up. “Our Cook School income halved from £1.1m to under £600,000 in three months,” says Nairn. “Yet labour costs, coupled with running costs, remained the same. It became unviable. And we couldn’t get the pizza business to work on the same commercial terms.” His association with Native, the restaurant in the Hilton Garden Inn, Aberdeen, ended three years ago but he remains closely involved with Kailyard restaurant at the Hilton Dunblane Hydro.
**
Lost Mary Queen of Scots drama by Whisky Galore director airs after 50 years
2018-12-03 05:01:28
https://www.heraldscotland.com/news/17271292.lost-mary-queen-of-scots-drama-by-whisky-galore-director-airs-after-50-years/

  HE was the Scots director behind some of the quirkiest and best-loved films of the post-war period, including Whisky Galore and The Ladykillers.
 
  But despite a glittering career spanning London and Hollywood, the late Alexander Mackendrick never succeeded in getting his passion project about Scotland's most famous monarch off the ground.
 
  Half a century after being sidelined, however, Mary Queen of Scots will be given its world premiere on BBC Radio 4 this Saturday, directed by award-winning Edinburgh-based filmmaker Hope Dickson Leach and narrated by Glenda Jackson.
 
  The title role in the drama is played by rising star Ellie Bamber - girlfriend of Renfrewshire-born Bodyguard star Richard Madden – alongside a host of Scots acting talent that includes Bill Paterson, Mark Bonnar, Kevin Guthrie and Emun Elliot.
 
  The action takes place over a tumultuous 15 months as the young Scottish Queen, isolated, pregnant and betrayed, must fight for her place and try to overcome the warring and manipulative men that surround her.
**
Review: Wendy and Peter Pan, Lyceum, Edinburgh, Five stars
2018-12-03 14:15:11
https://www.heraldscotland.com/news/17272526.review-wendy-and-peter-pan-lyceum-edinburgh-five-stars/

  There is an emotional ache at the heart of Ella Hickson’s reimagining of J.M. Barrie’s much-loved children’s story, brought to vivid life by director Eleanor Rhode on Max Johns’ expansive set that opens out from children’s bedroom to lost boys’ hideout and pirate’s lair. It’s an ache of wonder and loss that treads the shadow-line between the two in a world where growing up isn’t always easy.
 
  None of the play’s over-riding seriousness takes away from the transformative sense of joy that runs through a show that makes Isobel McArthur’s Wendy much more than Peter Pan’s sidekick once she and her brothers fly off to Never Land where she’s meant to play mum. As she learns from her sisters-in-arms Tink and Tiger Lily how to hang tough, Wendy also comes to terms with the death of her brother Tom, whose presence gives the show added depths.
 
  This is seen through the transformation of the family home as a house of laughter to one of pain. It’s there too when Sally Reid’s fairy-winged force of nature Tink appears to have breathed her last. When Bonnie Baddoo’s fearless Tiger Lily is killed without comment, both incidents are as poignant as any Shakespearian youth who becomes the first of the gang to die.
 
  Ziggy Heath’s Peter is a terminal adolescent and unreconstructed thrill-seeker with no sense of everyday responsibilities who gets by on charisma alone. As he spars with Captain Hook, played by Gyuri Sarossy as an increasingly past-it punk, it’s as if he’s squaring up to his own delayed mortality.
 
  Hickson not only empowers Wendy, but allows her younger brother Michael to take a leap into the dressing up box to explore his own sense of self. Underscored by Michael John McCarthy’s moving score and given a starry beauty by Mark Doubleday’s lighting, the result is an exquisite fantasia about healing, about growing up enough to keep the child within alive, and about learning to let go enough to be able to fly in every way.
**
Brian Beacom: The Bafta doesn't matter. Elaine C.Smith Aladdin has all her focus.
2018-12-03 05:03:05
https://www.heraldscotland.com/arts_ents/17271306.brian-beacom-the-bafta-doesnt-matter-elaine-csmith-aladdin-has-all-her-focus/

  THE CONVERSATION doesn’t get straight to talking about Elaine C Smith’s Widow Twankey performance at the Glasgow’s King’s Theatre where she’s headlining Aladdin. There’s the controversy to get out of the way first.
 
  We’re chatting in the dressing room during rehearsals about her recent Bafta Scotland Best Actress Award. But Smith, perhaps surprisingly, isn’t for sipping from the champagne bottle that says Congratulations on the label. “Well, I didn’t even go to the ceremony,” she admits, with a shrug. “I stayed at home and watched the X Factor in my jammies.”
 
  Why wouldn’t you go? There was always a chance you’d pull it off. Your Christine character in the very slick Two Doors Down is a stand-out. “I haven’t gone to the Baftas in 15 years. The only time I’ve previously been nominated in the past 30 years was in the same category as Gregor [Fisher, her one-time Rab C. Nesbitt co-star]. And they didn’t even have a separate men and women’s category.
 
  “I thought this was really disrespectful to women, and felt the Bafta people wanted me there for the celebrity recognition factor, a bit taken for granted. And I also felt it was wrong Two Doors Down wasn’t nominated for Best Script.” The actress takes a breath; “And while I love Scot Squad (which did win) it’s improvised. How can that be right?”
 
  Smith believes judging panels lean in favour of drama, that comedy is considered all too easy. She’s right. Comedy is harder to write and to perform. “Actors can greet easily,” she says. “Try making people laugh. And remember the only way Robin Williams could win an Oscar was in playing a straight part [In Good Will Hunting]."
**
Clydebank energy challenger lays foundations for growth
2018-12-03 11:36:21
https://www.heraldscotland.com/business_hq/17271308.clydebank-energy-challenger-lays-foundations-for-growth/

  CLYDEBANK-based Together Energy has unveiled a new leadership team and invested in a new customer billing system as it looks to strengthen its position amid fierce trading conditions in the UK energy supply sector.
 
  The energy challenger, which gives employment opportunities to young people from disadvantaged backgrounds, has appointed former Lloyds Banking Group and Rangers director Donald McIntyre as commercial director to help prepare the firm for its next phase of growth.
 
  The veteran financier is one of a number of changes made by Together Energy founder and chief executive Paul Richards to the company’s senior team.
 
  David Stroud, the former chief operations director of Newcastle-based Future Energy, is now Together’s director of strategy and Josh Montgomery has become director of trading, joining financial director Graeme Toolin and director of partnerships Gavin Baillie.
 
  Mr Richards said: “We’ve grown at a substantial rate and currently have 60,000 customers so it’s vital that we have the right team in place to take us from essentially a start-up to a high street challenger brand. Our team has an exceptional skill set and we have ambitious plans going forward.”
**
Jeremy Peat: 'We should feel rather sorry for the folk at the Scottish Fiscal Commission'
2018-12-03 05:14:45
https://www.heraldscotland.com/business_hq/17271378.jeremy-peat-we-should-feel-rather-sorry-for-the-folk-at-the-scottish-fiscal-commission/

  JEREMY PEAT
 
  To state the blindingly obvious, a week on Wednesday is not the ideal date for Finance Minister Derek Mackay to be delivering his Scottish Budget. On 12th December he will rise to his feet just one day after the conclusion of the Brexit debate in the UK House of Commons, with a vote on the Prime Minister’s preferred option.
 
  Unless something remarkable happens between then and now – not to be ruled out in these unpredictable days – Mrs May’s deal is set to be rejected. If, as expected by all the pundits, the deal is voted down, then there will be major uncertainties as to what happens next. There may have been amendments debated and voted upon regarding a variety of options – including a further referendum and a Norway-type deal. But any alternative outcome would require delay and re-negotiation. If urgent action is not taken, then the clear risk must be a hard exit at end March 2019
 
  This would have immediate adverse repercussions for many businesses and for the UK and Scottish economies; and hence the public finances. Indeed the short term scenario modelling released last week by the Bank of England suggests that in their worst case scenario the UK economy could shrink by 8% (double the contraction post financial crisis in 2008) and not make up the lost ground until 2023.
 
  In addition to this short term work from the BoE we have seen longer term scenario analysis from both Scottish and UK Governments. None of these should be taken as gospel but it does not require sophisticated econometric modelling to tell us that increased uncertainty and a heightened risk of a hard Brexit would result in market gyration, distinctly more down than up for both sterling and equities.
**
Joint convention bureaux campaign brings £9.5m worth of inquiries
2018-12-03 05:05:00
https://www.heraldscotland.com/business_hq/17268436.joint-conference-centres-campaign-brings-95m-worth-of-inquiries/

  A CAMPAIGN to promote Scotland's collective conferencing firepower has generated £9.5 million worth of inquiries since it was launched a year ago.
 
  Billed as the country's first business events campaign, VisitScotland's Legends has also converted £2m of inquiries into business so far with more currently in the process.
 
  It brings together all of Scotland’s convention bureaux as well as major conference centres and regions which are often head to head in competition under one banner to grow the multi-million-pound sector.
 
  It also sells Scotland on aspects such as the value of holding conferences in places where world-leading academics or executives are already based instead of just accommodation capability.
 
  It focuses on one of Scotland’s key sectors every two months, such as technology, energy and life sciences, with the country’s convention bureaux and regions contributing content to highlight achievements and opportunities, which is then shared across social media using the hashtag #IdeasBecomeLegend.
**
Campervan producer reaping benefits of shift to employee ownership
2018-12-03 05:01:12
https://www.heraldscotland.com/business_hq/17271290.campervan-producer-reaping-benefits-of-shift-to-employee-ownership/

  Name:
 
  Simon Poole.
 
  Age:
 
  51.
 
  What is your business called?
**
Half of top 10 pay hikes in Scotland in tech
2018-12-03 05:00:00
https://www.heraldscotland.com/business_hq/17267760.half-of-top-10-pay-hikes-in-scotland-in-tech/

  Five of the top ten pay rises in Scotland were for technology roles, according to recruitment specialists.
 
  Highest was data architects who saw an average increase of 16.7 per cent with demand planners - focused on forecasting processes, production and revenue - increasing 15.8%.
 
  Systems applications and products architects increased by 15.4%, Hays' study found.
 
  Other sectors which saw high salary increases include communications managers, at 14.3%, and credit risk analysts, at 14.3%.
 
  Overall, Scotland showed the highest increase of employers at 78% across the UK of 72% expecting to increase salaries over the next 12 months, compared to 69% for Scotland in 2018.
**
Rog Wood: 'One of the reasons for this lack of profitability is our lack of economies of scale and inclement weather'
2018-12-03 05:14:23
https://www.heraldscotland.com/business_hq/17271375.rog-wood-one-of-the-reasons-for-this-lack-of-profitability-is-our-lack-of-economies-of-scale-and-inclement-weather/

  The recently published annual report by Quality Meat Scotland (QMS), entitled "Cattle and Sheep Profitability in Scotland", once again highlights how dependent Scottish beef and sheep producers in our Less Favoured Areas are on EU subsidies.
 
  Although the results show some improvement in margins among suckler herds (beef cows that naturally rear their calves), they continue to illustrate the challenge of achieving a positive margin without Common Agricultural Policy (CAP) support.
 
  Forty-four per cent of suckler herds in the survey achieved a positive net margin - this is an increase from the 36% last year, and is much higher than 2014 and 2016. Put another way, more than half of Scottish suckler herds failed to make a profit when CAP subsidies were removed from the calculation - and that is in one of the better years when prices for weaned calves were higher.
 
  One of the reasons for this lack of profitability in the absence of subsidies is our lack of economies of scale and inclement weather.
 
  Scotland only has 450,000 suckler cows and the average size of a herd is just 56 cows. Sixty per cent of Scottish herds have less than 50 cows (average 17), and about a quarter have less than 10 (average 4).
**
Trading Places: Donaldson joins LDC from RBS
2018-12-03 05:00:00
https://www.heraldscotland.com/business_hq/17267679.trading-places-donaldson-joins-ldc-from-rbs/

  Mid-market private equity investor LDC has bolstered its team in Scotland with the appointment of Lee Donaldson as investment director.
 
  Mr Donaldson will work alongside director and head of Scotland Mark Kerr and investment director Colin Bennett to further strengthen the firm’s operations in Scotland and drive new investment opportunities across the country’s growing group of medium-sized businesses.
 
  He joins from RBS, where he most recently led the bank’s structured finance team in Aberdeen.
 
  He has over 20 years’ experience of working directly with Scottish businesses.
 
  Mr Kerr said: "We are committed to supporting ambitious management teams across Scotland as they grow their businesses.
**
Paul Scullion: What tech firms can do to prepare for external fundraising
2018-12-03 12:08:05
https://www.heraldscotland.com/business_hq/17272234.paul-scullion-what-tech-firms-can-do-to-prepare-for-external-fundraising/

  PAUL SCULLION
 
  External fundraising will be a necessary step in the journey for the vast majority of tech companies. Besides the obvious economic necessity, external investment can be an exciting means of growing your business, giving you access to the experience and expertise of professional investors with a proven track record.
 
  That said, the investment process can be a complex and daunting one, especially for those who haven’t been through it before. For companies who have not yet embarked on their first funding round or who are currently at the early stages of doing so, there are actions you can take to prepare for it.
 
  A typical fundraising will have the following key steps:
 
  1. Preparation of a business plan. What do you want to do with the technology, when do you want to do it by and how are you going to achieve that? This is a key document as it will go a long way to helping investors decide whether or not to invest.
**
Business HQ:  Scotland leads the way as CityFibre helps to build Gigabit Britain
2018-12-03 09:42:44
https://www.heraldscotland.com/business_hq/17271612.scotland-leads-the-way-as-cityfibre-helps-to-build-gigabit-britain/

  We may have come a long way from the days of dial-up internet, but the truth is that, by and large, the UK’s digital infrastructure belongs in a different era. Our creaking copper telecommunications infrastructure is holding back our ability to keep pace with modern working trends and putting us at risk of falling even further behind our global rivals.
 
  According to research, over three quarters (78%) of UK consumers feel slowed down and frustrated by their internet connection, with the figure rising among homeworkers (82%) and young people (87%). That leaves the UK in a precarious position as it battles to meet the demands of the modern workplace – and workforce – of the future. Something has to change. For too long, we have been sold ‘fibre’ internet which actually only uses fibre cables for part of the journey.
 
  Between your premises and the local cabinet, data is carried along old-fashioned copper wire, which is notoriously slow and unreliable.
 
  That stands in stark comparison to ‘full fibre’, which uses fibre exclusively.
 
  Yet, although the rollout is gathering pace, just five per cent of premises in the country have access to ultrafast full fibre broadband today – a figure in stark contrast with our European competitors. In Portugal and Italy, more than 80 per cent of premises can access full fibre, while in Spain the figure is above 70 per cent.
**
Ian McConnell: Brexit fantasy exposed for what it is as even shambolic Tories admit huge cost of this mistake
2018-11-30 08:02:49
https://www.heraldscotland.com/business_hq/17265297.ian-mcconnell-brexit-fantasy-exposed-for-what-it-is-as-even-shambolic-tories-admit-cost/

  SO here we are – nearly two-and-a-half years on from the Brexit vote – and those big new trade deals promised by those campaigning to take us out of the European Union look to be further away than ever.
 
  Uncertainty and alarm over what will happen next is as great as ever.
 
  One thing that is becoming ever-clearer by the day, although patently not to many Brexiters, is the grave economic and societal damage to the UK if it leaves the EU, under any exit scenario. The economic damage is spelled out in the UK Government’s own forecasts this week.
 
  The whole situation seems entirely absurd. The UK Government is acknowledging the major damage that Brexit will do to the economy, and consequently living standards, but at the same time continuing to insist on taking us down this route.
 
Read More: Ian McConnell: Tory Brexit tale of sound and fury but this is ‘unhinged self-sabotage’
**
Loganair chief warns of more airline failures
2018-12-01 05:00:00
https://www.heraldscotland.com/business_hq/17268488.loganair-chief-warns-of-more-airline-failures/

  THE boss of Glasgow-based Loganair has warned the severity of the challenges facing the aviation industry is likely to see even more airlines going out of business in the coming months.
 
  Jonathan Hinkles said companies across the European aviation sector are battling a host of common headwinds.
 
  The cost of fuel has surged on the back of the recovery in crude prices and the “catastrophic” weakness of sterling since the Brexit vote two years ago, which for UK carriers has pushed up the cost of fuel and other services because they are paid for in dollars. At the same time, compensation pay-outs to passengers for issues such as late departures and a pilot shortage are contributing to the malaise.
 
  The challenges are underlined by events at Flybe, until last year a franchise partner for Loganair. Exeter-based Flybe confirmed last week it has been holding takeover talks with Virgin Atlantic after putting itself up for sale, following a profit warning in October.
 
  The latest developments at Flybe came after Copenhagen-based Primera Airlines, which operated low-cost long-haul flights to destinations around the world, ceased trading in October.
**
Performance fees help fund house profits to soar
2018-12-01 05:20:38
https://www.heraldscotland.com/business_hq/17269452.performance-fees-help-fund-house-profits-to-soar/

  TH E UK arm of fund manager Martin Currie turned a £10.2 million pre-tax loss into a £1.6m profit in the year to March 2018 after seeing a drastic turnaround in the level of performance fees it earned.
 
Edinburgh-based Martin Currie Investment Management (MCIM) saw turnover rise by 54 per cent, from £33.1m to £51m, with much of the rise down to performance fees increasing from just under £1m the previous year to £18.5m.
 
  It is not unusual for the business’s turnover to move around in this way, with outgoing company secretary Paul Evitt noting in the firm’s accounts, which have just been filed at Companies House, that “turnover can fluctuate based on performance fees earned”.
 
  Although markets grew strongly over the course of 2017, average assets under management at MCIM remained unchanged at £4 billion year on year.
 
  The company’s six directors earned an average of £558,000 for the year, with the highest-paid executive receiving £784,000. The average member of staff earned just under £170,000.
**
Serica boss hails purchase of North Sea assets
2018-12-01 05:20:31
https://www.heraldscotland.com/business_hq/17269451.serica-boss-hails-purchase-of-north-sea-assets/

  THE CHAIRMAN of North Sea focused Serica Energy has paid tribute to oil major BP as well as the UK Government and Oil and Gas Authority (OGA) after announcing that its acquisition of interests in the Bruce, Keith and Rhum fields has finally completed.
 
  The company agreed a year ago to buy BP’s stakes in the fields for a total consideration of £300 million, before announcing in August that it would acquire Total’s Bruce and Keith interests for $20m.
 
  In November, the firm said it had agreed to buy further interests in Bruce and Keith from BHP Billiton and Marubeni.
 
  While the BP deal was scheduled to complete earlier this year it was pushed back to this month to allow more time to overcome regulatory hurdles. The Total acquisition was dependant on the BP deal closing.
 
  Serica chairman Tony Craven Walker said the acquisitions are “transformational” for the business, adding that they make the firm “one of the leading mid-tier independent exploration and production companies operating in the UK North Sea”.
**
